--> Refund4Freedom Refund4Freedom / Demands / Refund / Supporting Material / Share! Get your Windows license refund now! We all know the joy of acquiring a new laptop and the excitement of exploring its features and functionalities. However, the vast majority of laptops are only sold with a specific proprietary operating system: Microsoft Windows. The vendors do not remove the Windows license, and you must pay the entire price, even if you do not want to use this system. This is unfair and we want to change it! Consumers should be able to buy laptops without any specific operating system, and should not have to pay the license price if they don't want to. Request your refund now! Demands You should not have to pay for software you don't want. Devices like laptops and smartphones are general purpose computers so, they should be neutral in relation to the software they run. Manufacturers and vendors should not have the right to impose specific operating systems on you. When you request a refund, the process should be easy, quick and straightforward. Here’s what we demand: Do not restrict users to specific software. Device manufacturers and vendors should not impose an operating system or software on consumers, and should not force them to pay for software that they don't want. Laptops and smartphones are general purpose computers, so consumers should be able to run the software they want on their devices. Transparent pricing. Consumers should have the right to decline pre-installed software, including the operating system, but still be able to buy the laptop without it. Hassle-free refunds. Manufacturers and vendors should clearly publish the steps for requesting and obtaining a refund on their websites. The process should be simple, easy and accessible to any consumer. No one should go through unnecessary or complicated procedures i.e. sending the entire computer to a service centre just to remove unwanted software. Take action! How to request your license refund Start up the PC and take pictures of the screen where the clauses showing the contract where the reimbursement is indicated, even better if you make a video by scrolling through the whole contract. If possible, do not format/erase your computer storage at this time. Contact the manufacturer's customer service by telephone or, better still, chat/email, and keep the relevant correspondence (for the telephone, note the date, time and with whom you spoke; for chat, copy/paste what was written). If they respond negatively or do not respond... send a letter of formal windows refund notice (Italian-only) . For the quantification of the refund, it is good to take 2-3 PC models that are available both with and without Windows and average out the price difference. Or fill the below form and print it. In all cases, if you have asked for a licence refund but have had problems, remember to: if you are in Italy, report your experience to the Antitrust AGCM : the more reports that come in, the more the Agency will be prompted to take action! For free assistance in obtaining reimbursement, even for the first stages, you can contact Luca Bonissi - an expert in the field, with numerous cases to his credit - at the email address rimborsowindows@bonissi.it --> 1 Start up the PC and take pictures Take pictures of the screen of the clauses of the contract where the reimbursement is indicated or make a video by scrolling through the whole contract (maybe useful later). If possible, do not format/erase yet your computer storage. 2 Contact the manufacturer's customer service Contact the manufacturer by telephone or, better still, chat/email, and keep the relevant correspondence. For the telephone, note the date, time and with whom you spoke. For chat, copy/paste what was written. 3 If they respond negatively... Problem Not Solved: fill-in the Refund Form and send it to the manufacturer. Fill in the Refund Form 4 Report your experience If you are in Italy, report your experience to the Antitrust AGCM: Send report to the Antitrust or go directly to the form: Fill form of the Antitrust The more reports that come in, the more the Antitrust will be prompted to take action! Feel free to share your case with us as well! segreteria@linux.it contact@fsfe.org Supporting Material Here you can find useful material to refund the cost of the Windows operating system. Manufacturers Not all manufacturers and vendors are equal. Some react differently and treat consumers better. We have a lot of experience in requesting refunds, and keep track of those who respect your right to choose—and those who don't. Below we provide reports on manufacturers concerning their licenses and refund policies to help you in getting your money back. HP HP does not have a reimbursement procedure for Windows. Several contact attempts were made by different customers, and were always ignored by HP. Lenovo Lenovo has a reimbursement procedure for Windows. Lenovo license reimbursement procedure for Windows . The PC must be shipped to a Lenovo assistance centre. Asus Asus has a reimbursement procedure for Windows. No need to ship the PC to Asus. Asus's reimbursement procedure is not published on their website. Asus gives a reimbursement between 9 and 65 euros, depending on the Windows version. Send an e-mail to info@asus.it indicating the PC serial number and your bank details, within 30 days of purchase and without accepting the EULA when you first turn on the machine. Dell Dell does not have a reimbursement procedure for Windows. Dell's terms and conditions , in Article 7.3, explicitly states that in the event of non-approval of the operating system licence, the computer must be returned. Acer Acer has a reimbursement procedure for Windows. Acer license reimbursement procedure for Windows . The PC must be shipped to an Acer assistance centre. Forms to be filled in and submitted can be found on the Acer website. Reports Reports received. Get inspired. Explore information from other users like you who got their license fee back! Paolo Cavallini Lenovo Paolo requested a refund of the Windows license for his new Lenovo computer, but he only received denials. He moved his report to the Italian Antitrust (AGCM), also appearing to be without response. (IT) First answer from Lenovo , (IT) Second answer from Lenovo IT for s.r.l. Acer Following repeated unsuccessful telephone contacts, the ITfor company in Turin took Acer Italia to the Justice of the Peace contesting the manner in which the license was reimbursed. After several hearings and adjournments, Acer Italia granted payment of 50 euros + 100 euros for legal fees incurred. Writ of Lawsuit , Minutes of Conciliation , Complete documentation Luca Bonissi Mediacom After purchasing a Mediacom PC, Luca went directly to Datamatic S.p.A. (the parent company of the Mediacom brand) to request a refund of the Windows license. Only after the legal summons was served, and just before the legal hearing, Luca received an offer for a private transaction and awarded a refund of 44 euros. Complete documentation Luca Bonissi Microsoft Luca, after some perseverance, reached the Microsoft Technical Support of Microsoft S.r.l. (representing Microsoft in Italy), which actually provides a procedure for refunding the Windows license on products sold by the company (in this case, a Microsoft Surface). After several emails and communications, Luca received a refund of 43 euros. Complete documentation Luca Bonissi Lenovo Following a lengthy legal dispute, the judgment in the second instance awarded a refund of 42 euros for the Windows license, 1,000 for legal fees, and ordered Lenovo Italy S.r.l to reimburse 20,000 euros in damages for aggravated litigation liability. Complete documentation Luca Bonissi HP The reimbursement request was denied several times, but the Justice of the Peace in Monza awarded a 61 euro reimbursement for pre-installed licenses (of both Windows 10 Home and Office 365 Personal). Complete documentation Francesca Tregnaghi Dell After a couple of Italian legal emails (PEC emails), the 51 euro refund for the Windows 10 Home Edition license was granted. Complete documentation Vincenzo Castiglia Lenovo After a long series of emails and phone calls, the 42 euro refund for the Windows 10 Home Edition license was granted. For the payment, Vincenzo chose to give Italian Linux Society's bank details. Complete documentation Silvia Lenovo After a particularly prolonged email exchange, a refund of 47 euros for the Windows 10 Home Edition license was granted. Complete documentation Luca Bonissi Lenovo Oggetto del contendere è stato - come in diversi altri casi - la presunta necessità di restituire il PC. Alla fine è stato riconosciuto un rimborso di 75 euro per la licenza Windows 11 Home. Complete documentation Luca Bonissi Acer Although Acer has a procedure for refunding the Windows license, it involves sending the PC, long waiting times and derisory compensation, so the procedure is inconvenient and impractical. The lengthy exchange of legal Italian emails (PEC emails) between Luca and Acer, culminating in the suggestion of a court case, ended in a 129 euro refund. Complete documentation Giuseppe Salustri MSI After many difficulties raised by MSI, including shipping the computer to the service center in Poland, long waiting times, and reminders, Giuseppe finally got a refund of 40 euros (net of shipping costs, absurdly charged to the customer). It is recommended not to write to the email address for support, but to register on the MSI site and open a ticket specifying the serial number, first name, last name, mailing address, and phone number right away. Show more reports Get a licence free device Want to buy a licence-free PC directly? Search for your nearest Linux-friendly shop on LinuxSi! (Italian-only). My device is a smartphone. Check how you can install a different operating system on your smartphone FSFE's Free Your Android site . Share the campaign The more people know, the stronger we are! Share this campaign with your friends, family, and on your social networks, by using #Refund4Freedom and #GetYourWindowsRefund. Urge suppliers to express a clear position towards your rights. Tell us your story Whether you got a refund or hit a roadblock, share your experience with others. Tag @fsfe and @ItalianLinuxSociety on Mastodon and use our pre-made text for your social media posts. Share on Mastodon Share on X/Twitter Share on Facebook If you asked for a refund, we can send to you some free stickers for your free laptop! Request stickers from the Italian Linux Society Request stickers from the Free Software Foundation Europe To receive news about the right to reimbursement of pre-installed software licences in Italy, see: ADUC Windows refund page . Follow the project on: Mastodon , Matrix Chat , GitLab , RSS EN English Italiano Polski Read this page in another language: EN IT PL For reports and contacts write to: webmaster@linux.it Edit page Privacy policy Content License: Creative Commons BY 4.0 by Refund4Freedom contributors