Nvidia Has Been in Talks to Buy Hugging Face for More Than $13 Billion - Business Insider Business Insider Subscribe Log in Today's Briefing Search Business Strategy Economy Finance Retail Advertising Careers Law Media Real Estate Small Business The Better Work Project Personal Finance Tech Science AI Enterprise Transportation Startups Innovation Markets News Stocks Indices Commodities Crypto Currencies ETFs Lifestyle Entertainment Culture Travel Food Health Education Parenting Military &amp; Defense Politics Reviews Home Kitchen Style Streaming Pets Tech Deals Gifts Tickets Video Big Business So Expensive View From Above Small Business Authorized Account Risky Business Boot Camp Still Standing How Crime Works Life Lessons Level Up Community BI Job Scout Games Boxed Pipeline Knighthop Tally Subscribe My account Log in Newsletters Saved Articles US edition Deutschland &amp; Österreich España Japan Polska TW 全球中文版 Get the app Exclusive Nvidia has been in talks to acquire Hugging Face for more than $13 billion By Katie Roof You're currently following this author! Want to unfollow? Unsubscribe via the link in your email. , Geoff Weiss You're currently following this author! Want to unfollow? Unsubscribe via the link in your email. , and Ashley Stewart You're currently following this author! Want to unfollow? Unsubscribe via the link in your email. Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang Bloomberg/Getty Images 2026-08-27T00:34:46.985Z Read in app Copy link Email Facebook WhatsApp X LinkedIn Bluesky Threads lighning bolt icon An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt. Impact Link Save Saved Listen to this story This story is available exclusively to Business Insider subscribers. Become an Insider and start reading now. Have an account? Log in . Nvidia has been in talks to acquire Hugging Face, the popular AI platform for sharing and building with open-source models, in what could be one of the chip giant's biggest deals yet. The two parties have had acquisition conversations in recent weeks about a deal that would value Hugging Face at more than $13 billion , according to a person familiar with the matter. The companies have not yet reached a deal, and the talks could still fall apart, the person said. Business Insider on Sunday was the first to report that Hugging Face was fielding takeover interest. Nvidia and Hugging Face did not respond to requests for comment. Nvidia has increasingly ramped up dealmaking with its enormous cash pile. The company said Wednesday that it has $18 billion committed to equity investments for the rest of its fiscal year, on top of $47.9 billion it already holds in private companies. Microsoft also met with Hugging Face, but the person familiar and a second person said talks are not ongoing. Nvidia already has a relationship with Hugging Face. The chipmaker participated in its $235 million funding round in 2023 that valued it at $4.5 billion. Hugging Face turned down a $500 million investment offer from Nvidia late last year that would have valued it at $7 billion, the Financial Times previously reported . Hugging Face said at the time it did not want a dominant investor that could sway decisions. Hugging Face sits at the center of the open-source AI ecosystem, hosting millions of AI models and datasets that developers can build on. Owning the platform could give Nvidia a bigger foothold with those developers — and potentially drive more workloads onto its chips. Hugging Face was founded in 2016 by French entrepreneurs Clément Delangue, Julien Chaumond, and Thomas Wolf. Explore BI Games Take a smarter break in your day - and see how far you get. Play now Want more Business Insider in your news feed? Add BI in Google so our reporting is easier to find when you’re searching for what matters. Add to Preferred Sources But Nvidia ownership could also complicate one of Hugging Face's strengths: its neutrality. The platform supports models and hardware from across the industry, including Nvidia competitors such as AMD and Intel. Have a tip? Contact Katie Roof via email at kroof@businessinsider.com or Signal at @kroof.26 Contact Geoff Weiss via email at gweiss@businessinsider.com or Signal at @geoffweiss.25. Contact Ashley Stewart via email at astewart@businessinsider.com or Signal at +1-425-344-8242. Use a personal email address and a nonwork device; here's our guide to sharing information securely . Recommended video Trending conversations Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know comments comment_author Loading comment 0 replies Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know comments comment_author Loading comment 0 replies Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know comments comment_author Loading comment 0 replies Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know comments comment_author Loading comment 0 replies No comments right now, check back later. Comments are unavailable right now. Read comments Start the conversation Read next Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know Geoff Weiss You're currently following this author! Want to unfollow? Unsubscribe via the link in your email. Follow Geoff Weiss is a senior reporter on Business Insider’s tech team, where he writes about AI startups and Y Combinator, the intersection of AI and the media industry, and workplace dynamics within top AI labs and chip companies. Previously, Geoff was on the media desk, covering YouTube and Netflix, and themes like the intersection of Hollywood and the creator economy. His work on Netflix’s video podcasting ambitions and Mr Beast’s lessons for Hollywood won second and first prize, respectively, at the 2025 LA Press Club Awards. Prior to joining Business Insider, Geoff was the senior editor of Tubefilter and a staff writer at Entrepreneur. He graduated from New York University with a degree in English Literature. He can be reached at gweiss@businessinsider.com , on Signal @geoffweiss.25, and on LinkedIn . Have a tip? Use a personal email address and a nonwork device; here's our guide to sharing information securely . Selected stories: Nvidia crushed its quarter — and CEO Jensen Huang said in a leaked all-hands that 'the market did not appreciate it' Nvidia will foot the bill for Trump's new visa fees. Here's what CEO Jensen Huang told staff. Massive AI salaries and RTO are fueling a real estate boom in San Francisco: 'It's going to rain money' The AI talent wars are ricocheting across startups. Here's how they're competing with Big Tech. Ashley Stewart You're currently following this author! Want to unfollow? Unsubscribe via the link in your email. Follow Ashley Stewart reports on technology companies including Microsoft from Seattle. Get an alert whenever I publish a story . Do you work at Microsoft or have insight to share? Contact this reporter via email at astewart@businessinsider.com or Signal at +1-425-344-8242. Use a personal email address and a nonwork device; here's our guide to sharing information securely . AI Big Tech Venture Capital More Exclusive HOME Subscribe This story is available exclusively to Business Insider subscribers. Become an Insider and start reading now. Have an account? Log in . Legal &amp; Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Privacy Policy Accessibility Code of Ethics Policy Reprints &amp; Permissions Disclaimer Advertising Policies Conflict of Interest Policy Commerce Policy Coupons Privacy Policy Coupons Terms Your Privacy Choices Company About Us Careers Advertise With Us Contact Us News Tips Company News Awards Masthead Other Games Sitemap Stock quotes by finanzen.net Corrections Community Guidelines AI Use BI Live Business Insider App International Editions AT DE ES JP PL TW Copyright &copy; 2026 Insider Inc. All rights reserved. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy . Jump to Main content Search Account Jump to top of page Something went wrong, please try again. Community Hub