--> Raven.config('https://6b64f5cc8af542cbb920e0238864390a@sentry.io/147999').install(); The History of the Bloomberg Terminal - IEEE Spectrum IEEE.org IEEE Xplore IEEE Standards IEEE Job Site More Sites Sign In Join IEEE The October issue of IEEE Spectrum is here! Download PDF ↓ Close bar A Brief History of the Bloomberg Terminal Share FOR THE TECHNOLOGY INSIDER Search: Explore by topic Aerospace AI Biomedical Climate Tech Computing Consumer Electronics Energy History of Technology Robotics Semiconductors Telecommunications Transportation IEEE Spectrum FOR THE TECHNOLOGY INSIDER Topics Aerospace AI Biomedical Climate Tech Computing Consumer Electronics Energy History of Technology Robotics Semiconductors Telecommunications Transportation Sections Features News Opinion Careers DIY Engineering Resources More Newsletters Special Reports Collections Explainers Top Programming Languages Robots Guide ↗ IEEE Job Site ↗ For IEEE Members Current Issue Magazine Archive The Institute The Institute Archive For IEEE Members Current Issue Magazine Archive The Institute The Institute Archive IEEE Spectrum About Us Contact Us Reprints &amp; Permissions ↗ Advertising ↗ Follow IEEE Spectrum Support IEEE Spectrum IEEE Spectrum is the flagship publication of the IEEE — the world’s largest professional organization devoted to engineering and applied sciences. Our articles, videos, and infographics inform our readers about developments in technology, engineering, and science. Subscribe About IEEE Contact &amp; Support Accessibility Nondiscrimination Policy Terms IEEE Privacy Policy Cookie Preferences Ad Privacy Options © Copyright 2026 IEEE — All rights reserved. A public charity, IEEE is the world&#39;s largest technical professional organization dedicated to advancing technology for the benefit of humanity. Enjoy more free content and benefits by creating an account Saving articles to read later requires an IEEE Spectrum account The Institute content is only available for members Downloading full PDF issues is exclusive for IEEE Members Downloading this e-book is exclusive for IEEE Members Access to Spectrum &#39;s Digital Edition is exclusive for IEEE Members Following topics is a feature exclusive for IEEE Members Adding your response to an article requires an IEEE Spectrum account Create an account to access more content and features on IEEE Spectrum , including the ability to save articles to read later, download Spectrum Collections, and participate in conversations with readers and editors. For more exclusive content and features, consider Joining IEEE . Join the world’s largest professional organization devoted to engineering and applied sciences and get access to all of Spectrum’s articles, archives, PDF downloads, and other benefits. Learn more about IEEE → Join the world’s largest professional organization devoted to engineering and applied sciences and get access to this e-book plus all of IEEE Spectrum’s articles, archives, PDF downloads, and other benefits. Learn more about IEEE → CREATE AN ACCOUNT SIGN IN JOIN IEEE SIGN IN Close Access Thousands of Articles — Completely Free Create an account and get exclusive content and features: Save articles, download collections, and post comments — all free! For full access and benefits, subscribe to Spectrum . CREATE AN ACCOUNT SIGN IN History of Technology Magazine Article Computing October 2026 Past Forward A Brief History of the Bloomberg Terminal It gave Wall Street traders and analysts an unprecedented window on global markets Allison Marsh 30 Sep 2026 6 min read Allison Marsh is a professor at the University of South Carolina and the codirector of the Ann Johnson Institute for Science, Technology &amp; Society. This early 1990s keyboard for the Bloomberg Terminal featured a trackball, speaker, and headphone and microphone ports. National Museum of American History/Smithsonian Institution Financial markets have always relied on timely information, and the drive for timeliness has always adapted to the latest technology. From clipper ships transiting the oceans to telegraph wires connecting cities to fiber-optic cables conducting trades in microseconds , traders have embraced any advantage to get the most up-to-date information. Indeed, the history of finance is really a story about how fast you can move information and who controls the interface. It’s only natural that people also figured out a way to profit by supplying that market intel. In 1841, for example, the Mercantile Exchange (predecessor to Dun &amp; Bradstreet) began selling proprietary business information to its U.S. clients. The following decade, Paul Julius Reuter began selling news services and stock price information. To supplement the company’s telegraph dispatches, he sent pigeons between Aachen, Germany, and Brussels; each bird carried a cylinder containing slips of paper with that day’s stock prices. In 1867, an inventor named Edward Calahan introduced the first telegraphic ticker-tape machine, which spooled out stock price information in near real time; Thomas Edison improved upon the design with his patented version in 1871. The Dow Jones Industrial Average debuted in 1896 as an index of 12 key businesses listed on U.S. stock exchanges. It included gas, oil, coal, and electric companies, as well as enterprises dealing in leather, rubber, and tobacco. Messengers delivered quotes from the trading floor to brokerage offices, while stock tickers kept investors informed of prices. By the time New York City held its first official ticker-tape parade , in 1919, telegraphy in Western Europe and the United States had become the chief means for quick transmission of vital stock information. In 1960, the first paperless financial service debuted, when Quotron introduced its electronic screens for displaying market quotes. Over the next two decades, other companies rolled out similar innovations for distributing financial news and data. So when Michael Bloomberg decided to enter this well-established industry in 1981, the big question was: How would his new company stand out? The Birth of the Bloomberg Terminal Bloomberg had cofounded Innovative Market Systems (IMS) after being fired from the investment bank Salomon Brothers. Landing on his feet with his US $10 million equity payout and joined by former Salomon colleagues Thomas Secunda, Duncan MacMillan, and Charles Zegar, Bloomberg pursued his belief that Wall Street would pay a premium for specialized financial data. He’d earned an electrical engineering degree from Johns Hopkins University and an MBA from Harvard, and he’d built computerized financial systems for Salomon. IMS focused on developing a computer terminal that not only provided up-to-date information but could also do instant quantitative analysis based on historical data. Michael Bloomberg believed Wall Street would pay a premium for access to specialized financial data. Karjean Levine/Getty Images At the time, most financial data still circulated through telephone calls, printed price sheets, and specialist publications, and analysis involved a fair amount of gut instinct guided by human expertise. Companies such as Reuters and Dow Jones provided subscription-based services for access to business news. But traders still had to assemble information from multiple sources and perform their own calculations and analysis. IMS proposed an integrated system with a single interface. Its Market Master terminal consisted of a monochrome CRT monitor, a custom keyboard, and a communications/controller unit that connected to the company’s private network. At launch , it provided only U.S. government bond prices and bond-calculation tools, but the dream was much bigger: a dedicated terminal that would sit on a trader’s desk and run different market scenarios, produce yield curves, and support investment calculations. IMS initially had just one client, Merrill Lynch, which invested $30 million (about $110 million today) in exchange for a 30 percent stake in the company and exclusive rights to the terminals for five years; Merrill waived that right in 1984. The first 22 Market Master terminals were delivered to Merrill in 1982, in the middle of a global recession . The timing was fortuitous. Worldwide, stock markets were transitioning to electronic trading, and the U.S. Federal Reserve was allowing more freely floating interest rates. Bond prices were more volatile, and investors were eager to figure out how to value them accurately. Bloomberg’s specialized financial terminals provided the data and the analytical tools to process and comprehend those sweeping changes. Five years after its launch, IMS rebranded as Bloomberg LP and expanded its clientele, and the Market Master became known as the Bloomberg Terminal. How Did the Bloomberg Terminal Work? The Bloomberg Terminal’s keyboard was designed with traders and analysts in mind. The function keys were color-coded and given labels specifying their usage, so that users didn’t have to remember. The original keyboard, affectionately referred to as “ the Chiclet ,” was hand assembled. A cable ran from the keyboard to the Bloomberg Controller, which had a dedicated phone line to connect to a local hub. The internet wasn’t commercially available yet, so the company basically built its own closed network, with centralized computers that maintained large databases and performed most of the calculations. Commands entered on the keyboard sent a request to the hub, which processed the information and sent back the result. The Chiclet keyboard for the Bloomberg Terminal was introduced around 1983. Although it looks like a generic keyboard, its function keys were finance-specific hot keys. National Museum of American History/Smithsonian Institution Hot keys let traders easily call up data on government securities, corporate debt, and currency markets, among other things. A series of keystrokes would pull up other historical and real-time data, run an analysis, or place a trade. Learning how to use the terminal and digest the vast amount of information, which was presented mostly in tabular form, became a rite of passage for users. In 1990, Bloomberg added a trackball to the keyboard, which helped the user navigate the multiple windows and menus typically displayed on screen. Two years later, the keyboard gained a built-in speaker, to support multimedia information; this design also included telephone, headphone, and microphone jacks. One of the most popular features was Instant Bloomberg, which allowed users to chat directly with fellow Bloomberg Terminal users over the proprietary network. By 1996, Bloomberg had keyboards that supported 23 different languages. In the early 2000s, the company began incorporating biometric authentication for terminal login, via a fingerprint reader on the keyboard. As the company’s business model evolved, the Bloomberg Terminal added services well beyond its initial offerings. In 1990, for example, worried that Dow Jones would stop providing access to its news stories, Bloomberg set up its own news service. It recruited Wall Street Journal reporter Matthew Winkler to oversee a dozen reporters; their stories on market and securities movements used graphs and calculations that served as advertisements for the terminal’s capabilities. These days, the Bloomberg news empire includes Bloomberg Businessweek , Bloomberg Radio , and Bloomberg Television . Bloomberg’s subscription-based financial model included the leasing of a Bloomberg Terminal with its specialized keyboard and other hardware, access to a dedicated private network, and a suite of services. In 1999, a subscription to a single Bloomberg Terminal cost $1,600 per month with a minimum two-year contract and a discount on each additional terminal. Today the annual price is upwards of $32,000 (trending a little below inflation). In 1995, the company launched a suite of “Open Bloomberg” software products that ran on the customer’s own PC; five years later, it stopped leasing dedicated terminals. Current customers also have access to mobile applications that allow terminal functions to run on phones and tablets. Today, “Bloomberg Terminal” has come to refer to the integrated data, analytics, news, communications, and trading environment. The Legacy of the Bloomberg Terminal Although the shift away from dedicated terminals was a logical response to the rise of the internet and publicly available market data, it altered the material culture of financial work. For nearly two decades, Bloomberg Terminals commanded an aura of power and financial prowess. They were emblems of market mastery, with a brand that was distinct from other office computers. With Open Bloomberg, users were no longer tied to a single desk or a fixed set of monitors. And so, cast-off Bloomberg Terminals found their way into museum collections. They’re a physical embodiment of the ethereal nature of financial markets, and a manifestation of mathematical calculations, network infrastructure, and business culture. The Bloomberg keyboard used by “Bond King” Bill Gross has his login and password taped on the front. National Museum of American History/Smithsonian Institution The Smithsonian Institution’s National Museum of American History has a number of Bloomberg keyboards in its collection, but my favorite is object number 2014.0012.02 , which was used by “Bond King” Bill Gross during the 1990s and 2000s at Pacific Investment Management. Gross had cofounded PIMCO in 1971 and built it into a $2 trillion bond investment firm. I especially love that Gross taped his login and password directly on his keyboard, which makes the object more relatable. I may never know what it’s like to manage billions in assets from a Bloomberg Terminal, but I absolutely understand the trial of remembering my passwords. Part of a continuing series looking at historical artifacts that embrace the boundless potential of technology. An abridged version of this article appears in the October 2026 print issue as “The Keyboard That Moved Markets.” References Bloomberg Professional Services has a nice timeline showing the evolution of its keyboards. For an economic analysis of how computers like the Bloomberg Terminal changed financial markets, see Gerben Bakker’s 2025 paper “ The Terminal Revolution: Reuters and Bloomberg as global providers of financial and economic news, 1960–2020 ,” published by the London School of Economics and Political Science. Bloomberg Terminals are in the collections of many museums, including the Computer History Museum and the National Museum of American History . From Your Site Articles Hedge Funds Look to Machine Learning, Crowdsourcing for Competitive Advantage › Wall Street Tries Shortwave Radio to Make High-Frequency Trades Across the Atlantic › The Microsecond Market - IEEE Spectrum › Related Articles Around the Web Bloomberg Terminal - Wikipedia › past forward type:departments wall street financial markets michael bloomberg fintech Allison Marsh Allison Marsh is a professor in Women and Gender Studies at the University of South Carolina and codirector of the university’s Ann Johnson Institute for Science, Technology &amp; Society. She combines her interests in engineering, history, and museum objects to write the Past Forward column, which tells the story of technology through historical artifacts. Marsh is currently working on a book on the history of women in electrical engineering. The Conversation (1) Jean Kumagai 30 Sep, 2026 STAFF EDITOR Fun fact: Bond King Bill Gross, whose Bloomberg Terminal keyboard (pictured above) is now in the Smithsonian’s National Museum of American History, has made a number of substantial donations to the Smithsonian over the years. In particular, he funded the stamp gallery that bears his name at the National Postal Museum in Washington, D.C. https://postalmuseum.si.edu/exhibition/william-h-gross-stamp-gallery 0 Replies Hide replies Show More Replies Consumer Electronics News Can These EEG Headphones Sense When Your Brain Needs a Break? 52m 4 min read AI Energy Sponsored Article Computing The Future Is Fanless: 100% Heat Capture for Liquid Cooled AI Servers 22 Sep 2026 3 min read Biomedical News World’s First Fully Implanted Cochlear Implant Reaches Patients 21h 3 min read Related Stories Computing Magazine Article October 2026 Telecommunications Poetry for Engineers: The UI Designer’s Dream DIY Magazine Hands On October 2026 Measure Distant Asteroids With a DIY Rig Careers Magazine Robotics October 2026 Profile Climate Tech Barbara Mazzolai Wants to Build a New Field of Robotics