LAN Party House We built our house for LAN parties This is our basement game room. 12 PCs are built into the walls. Game Stations These fold up nicely when not in use. Closed station Open station Dance Dance Revolution There are DDR pads in the floor. The Upstairs Office We can game here too. Board games are games, right? Computer Mode The table also transforms to reveal six more game stations. Two sit-stand desks in the back are our personal workstations. (But that's not me in the seat. That's Lester.) Cable Management Video and USB cables pass into conduits... Which eventually lead to... The Engine Room 20 identical game machines. All game machines netboot from a shared disk image on this server. Our personal desktops Dedicated A/C intakes from behind the machines and supplies cold air here. Door leads to the "hot side". The "Hot Side" It's actually not that hot. Networking Lots of cat6: 35 wall boxes with 4 ports each 7 PoE WAPs 8 PoE security cameras 3 PoE intercoms All network equipment and cameras are UniFi. Egads! This photo has made a lot of network engineers angry! Response in the Q&A. 2 Gbps fiber internet Components This is the hardware before it went into the machines. (Note: This was in 2023.) Intel Core i5-13600 32GB RAM GeForce RTX 4070 An insanely unstable motherboard with 10G ethernet on-board. Don't buy this. :( Assembly My (Kenton's) friends from junior high helped assemble the machines and pull the cables. We've been doing LAN parties together for nearly 30 years. Lester Jesse Peter Kenton Living Room This house has normal parts, too! Catwalk (Same room as above, after rotating right.) These shelves are designed for cats to climb. Cat doors lead into kids' bedrooms. Kids' Rooms Beds are lofted. Hallway to other kid's loft. (With lockable door.) Cat door from living room. 6' closet below loft. Cable conduit to engine room. (For future computer desks, when they're older.) The other kid's room is a mirror image of this. Call Rooms Two call rooms allow taking meetings without bothering other people. Of course, they are also game stations. Cat Restrooms Exhaust fans Cat doors allow cats access to bedrooms when human doors are closed. Space under stairwells is dedicated to cat litter boxes. Guest Rooms We have two guest rooms for out-of-town visitors. The Roof Deck My favorite part of the house. 30-mile view Misting fan, great in the heat! Cat Cat Q&A About Us Whose house is this? We are Kenton Varda and Jade Wang . We've been married since 2014. This is our house, where we live with our two kids, in Austin, Texas. Kenton is a software engineer. He: Started and is tech lead of the Cloudflare Workers serverless compute platform. Co-founded Sandstorm.io (with Jade) Created Cap'n Proto Long ago, led the original open source release of Google's Protocol Buffers . Is: kenton@lanparty.house GitHub: @kentonv Hacker News: kentonv Bluesky: @kentonvarda.com Twitter: @KentonVarda Discord: kentonv Jade is an entrepreneur. She: Holds a PhD in neuroscience and did research at NASA Co-founded the Chez JJ hacker house network Co-founded Sandstorm.io (with Kenton) Was Head of Startups at Cloudflare Advises and invests in startups, particularly in Austin Was once a concert pianist Is: jade@lanparty.house GitHub: @jadeqwang Hacker News: qiqing Bluesky: @jadewang.me Twitter: @qiqing Discord: qiqing Who designed and built it? We bought the property as an empty lot and designed and built the house from scratch. The lead architect was Richard Varda , Kenton's father. Rich is an accomplished architect who has designed everything from houses to skyscrapers. Among other things, he designed The Kingdom Centre in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, and The Musical Instrument Museum in Phoenix, Arizona. Rich was also VP of Architecture at Target for many years. Many features of the house were designed directly by Kenton and Jade. For example, Kenton designed the game station cabinetry, office conference table, cat shelves, conduit routing, and most technical features of the house. Additionally, we worked with Thom Lasley and others at RSP Architects . RSP normally does commercial buildings, not houses, but Rich was working with RSP on other projects at the time and had known Thom for decades, so it made sense. Blue Horse Building & Design was our general contractor who built the house. When was it built? The house was completed in late 2023. We originally bought the property in 2019, and began construction in mid-2021. Yeah, it took a while. Who made this site? This site was designed and coded by Kenton with photos taken by Kenton, Jade, and Rich. We are neither web designers nor photographers. That's why the design is weird and the photos are kinda meh. Nothing on this site is sponsored. Didn't someone else do this already? Like a decade ago? Yes, someone did. Specifically, me (Kenton)! In 2011 I completed a LAN-party optimized house in Palo Alto, California , and it went viral. It, too, was in collaboration with my father (but I had not yet met Jade). But contrary to what most people think upon seeing the pictures, the original LAN house was not very big: 1400 sqft. This made for a pretty awesome bachelor pad, but would have been a bit cramped for raising a family. The new house is much, much better. I've never heard of anyone else having done anything like this. This surprises me! But, surely, if someone else did it, someone would have told me about it? If you know of another, please let me know! Why did you move to Austin? In 2019, my team at Cloudflare was growing. But, most of the hiring was happening in the Austin office, while I worked from San Francisco. Meanwhile, with our first child on the way, Jade and I needed a bigger house, but we really could not afford to buy (much less build) anything bigger in Palo Alto. I suggested to Jade: Should we move to Austin? Jade initially said no, because she wanted our kids to benefit from Palo Alto's school district. At the time, it was rated #12 in the nation. But, looking closer at the rankings revealed a surprise: The Eanes school district in Austin was #8. When I showed this to Jade, she changed her mind. Ironically, just after we moved, covid hit, and Cloudflare became 100% remote. The original reason for the move—being closer to my team—became moot. In retrospect, we could have gone anywhere! Not that there's anywhere in particular that I think would have been better. It's just funny. How much did this cost? The 22 game machines (including monitors, cables, and peripherals) cost about $75,000 in total. The house overall was a 7-digit number. Sorry, I'm not comfortable being any more specific than that. I actually find it funny how cheap computers are. The cabinetry around the game stations cost a similar amount to the computers powering them. Think about that! The cabinetry is just a bunch of wood, cut into fairly large pieces. Maybe a few screws and hinges. Whereas the computers in total contain more than a trillion transistors , each of which had to be carefully etched in the right spot connected correctly to all the others. A trillion! That's 1,000,000,000,000! Of course, the point is, GPUs are mass-produced. Cabinets for game stations in LAN-party-optimized houses are, um, not. Where did you get the money? This question also makes me uncomfortable, but I know from last time that people will ask it, and if I don't answer, people will make things up. So, OK, I will tell you. I (Kenton) started my career at Google in 2005, which was a pretty good time to be there, even as a junior engineer. They gave me stock, and that stock went up. With no family and no hobbies aside from video games, money piled up in my bank account. After 4-5 years of saving, I was able to make a $200k down payment on a $1M construction loan (later converted into a mortgage). In many places that could have bought a mansion, but in Palo Alto it got me a tiny sliver of land and a 1400 sqft house. Still, I considered myself rich. Then things got weird. The success of Google, Facebook, and others in Silicon Valley had produced a large number of people in the area with a lot of money, ready to buy houses and start families. Meanwhile, NIMBY policies were blocking all new development. As a result, Palo Alto housing prices, already high, went bonkers over the course of the 2010's. My house, which had cost me $1M, became worth over $2M. This is absolutely unfair! I built the house so that I could throw parties and play video games with my friends. These do not seem like activities that are supposed to make money. But it made me a million dollars in profit. What? So basically, we were able to parlay that into a bigger house in Austin. And just in time! While Austin housing prices had been growing for a while, they really exploded after 2020. We bought our property in late 2019. (Aside: Today, in 2024, Austin housing prices are now actually declining rapidly, due to an enormous amount of new housing having been built over the last few years. Yes, it can be done! Now is a great time to move to Austin!) For completeness, I'll mention two other not-insignificant sources of money. First, Jade and I joined Cloudflare in 2017, a couple years before its IPO. This was a good time to join. The stock has done very well, even hitting a high point just as we started construction. Second, Jade has long been an active (albeit small-scale) seed-stage investor in startups. Before she met me, she invested in Matterport, in their very first funding round. They went on to become a public company. We were already in the process of moving to Austin before either Cloudflare or Matterport went public, so we didn't have any idea at the time how much they'd pay off. But they did, and this allowed us to expand scope. Yes, we are very lucky! About LAN Parties What's a LAN party? It's where everyone goes to one place and plays multiplayer videogames with each player having their own computer, connected over a Local Area Network. In the 90's, when internet connections were bad, LAN parties were popular among PC gamers. But when broadband got decent in the early 2000's, LAN parties largely died off, as people could now play multiplayer games without leaving the house. But I think that sucks. For me, LAN parties were never just about the game. LAN parties are a social event, and the game is merely a catalyst. LAN parties serve very much the same purpose as normal parties serve for normal people, but the game makes it easier and more fun for introverts to be social. Indeed, LAN parties are so fun that they traditionally go all night long—much longer than your normie parties—because no one wants to stop. My (Kenton's) first LAN party was for my 14th birthday, in 1996. We had four computers: a 486sx 25Mhz, a 486dx 33Mhz, a 486dx2 50Mhz, and a Pentium 120Mhz. We played Doom 2 all night long. It was the most fun I'd ever had. That same year, I had another LAN party on New Year's Eve, which I have done every year since. At least two out of three (and usually all three) of my junior high friends from Minneapolis have attended every single time. In total, I have hosted or attended probably over 100 LAN parties. All of them were at someone's house, typically with 8-16 people. I have never been interested in big commercial LAN parties with hundreds of attendees—at that point it feels no different than playing with randos on the internet. How can you have LAN parties when no games support LAN anymore? We have an internet connection. Dragging over your own computers is part of the fun of LAN parties. Why build them in? I originally thought this too. In fact, my first LAN party house was designed to let people bring their own box and quickly connect it to a station. But nobody ever did. Not once. Some people brought laptops, but they only ever used them if the game stations were all in use already. I do feel a lot of nostalgia for the days of trying to pack four people, four computers, and four monitors into one car on the way to a friends' LAN party, setting up machines on haphazardly arranged card tables with questionable seating arrangements, daisy-chaining power strips and network hubs. I'm a little less nostalgic for the experience of trying to copy game files over the network to get everyone on the same version, or pitying the one friend who inevitably has to reinstall Windows and doesn't manage to get in-game until after midnight. The fact is that, while these things were fun, they were Type II fun . And they made LAN parties inaccessible. Even the most enthusiastic of us didn't really want to do all that more than, like, 3-4 times a year, and a lot of people—even those who like games—really don't care to do it at all. I'm not even sure if I could do it anymore, as a 40-something with two kids! With computers built-in and set up in advance, we can commence gaming essentially immediately upon enough people arriving. We can get a lot more people to participate. If someone can only drop by for an hour or two, they can still play. And we can do it all much more often: at one point I was hosting LAN parties every other weekend. Why have everyone's backs to each other rather than facing each other? Some people feel REALLY strongly about this. A few have asserted that the whole setup is worthless because we have our backs to each other. So, first of all, the office actually has everyone around a table facing each other. It's only the basement that has backs to each other. In my opinion, though, facing each other is worse. You can't actually see the people on the other side unless you stand up, because the monitors are in the way. So, when we take a break between rounds to chat, everyone either has to get up, or talk over a wall. It's much nicer to just rotate in our chairs. Additionally, the facing-each-other approach takes a lot more space. The game room is designed so that we can fold everything away, slide the couches away, and have a big empty space where we can do other things, like play DDR , watch movies, play VR games, or set up a workshop . If we had the game stations in the middle of the room then it wouldn't be a suitable space for any of that. So, I think this was the right call. But I can certainly see opinions differing. What games do you play? Lots of things. We are trying new games all the time. In general, we prefer cooperative games, or at least team games. Most attendees are not actually hardcore gamers, so skill levels vary widely. In a free-for-all competitive game, one or two people tend to dominate while several can't get anywhere—that's not fun. Cooperative games allow everyone to participate according to their ability. Team competitive games allow us to carefully balance the teams, though this can be tricky. Our favorite LAN game of the past five years is probably Deep Rock Galactic, in which the players are a team of space dwarves mining an alien planet for resources. Prior to Deep Rock, Left 4 Dead 2 served the same purpose, or TF2 Mann vs. Machine mode. We have also played quite a few survivalcraft basebuilder games, such as Ark or Factorio. We played a lot of Overwatch, back when it was good, often with us on a team against internet randos, and occasionally team-vs-team entirely within the house. We still play Unreal Tournament 2004 regularly, usually in Assault or Onslaught mode. Are your parties open to the public? No. Sorry, you must be invited. I'm sure you understand: For security reasons, we can't just let random people on the internet into our house. If you want to get invited, you need to figure out some way to get to know one of us, or one of our friends who can vouch for you. One straightforward (albeit not easy) way to get an invite is to get hired at Cloudflare . ;) Do you buy the games for every computer? No. Everyone logs into their own Steam/Epic/etc. accounts, and must buy the game we are playing. We do, however, try to preinstall everything people might play. Fortunately, Steam and similar game launchers are able to use the same copy of the game for all users. About the tech How do you keep 20 computers up-to-date? That sounds tedious! I don't! I maintain a single disk image for all the machines. Before the party starts, I will install all needed games and updates on that single disk image. The machines all boot off of a network drive based on this image. Each machine gets a copy-on-write overlay on top of the main image, so that guests can make changes to their machine which won't be seen by any other, and will be deleted at the end of the party. I have put all the scripts I use for this up on GitHub. What exact hardware is in the game machines? For the game machines, I mostly targeted the Logical Increments "Outstanding" level, which aims to stay just under the inflection point where high-end price gouging sets in. This hardware was purchased in mid-2023, so obviously it's no longer the best choice today. But here it is: CPU: Intel Core i5-13600KF — Games care much more about GPU than CPU. CPU heat sink: Scythe Fuma 3 — Mostly chosen because it fits in a 4U chassis while the Noctua fans do not. GPU: Gigabyte Windforce RTX 4070 — Not super, not Ti, just 4070 Motherboard: Gigabyte Z790 Aorus Master — I do not recommend the motherboard! I was aiming to get the cheapest board that had 10G network on-board. The only reason I needed 10G network was because of the netboot setup: these machines access their primary storage entirely over the network. Otherwise, you absolutely do not need 10G for gaming. In general, I think expensive motherboards are a scam: they often provide no real benefit, but are marked up just because some suckers will buy them. Moreover, this particular motherboard is horribly unstable, frequently blue-screening shortly after boot. (Luckily, it seems to settle down after a minute or two and rarely disrupts actual games.) RAM: Corsair Vengeance 32GB (2x16GB) DDR5 5600 — Every time I see "Corsair Vengeance" I can't help but chuckle. Vengeance??? It's just computer memory, dude. PSU: Corsair SF750 — Platinum efficiency rating actually kinda matters when you're running 20 of them. Storage: Corsair MP700 Gen5 1TB NVMe — The storage is not actually used due to the netboot setup, but my hope is eventually to improve the design such that the copy-on-write overlay can be on local disk instead of server-side, using this storage. Chassis: Rosewill RSV-L4500U 4U — Realistically if you're rack-mounting consumer-grade hardware you have to go with a 4U chassis. I really tried to make 2U or even 3U work. It doesn't work. RGB: None Incredibly long DisplayPort & USB cables: Monoprice SlimRun Monitor: Corsair Xeneon 32UHD144 (32" 4k 144Hz) — I chose this monitor mostly because it had the slimmest profile out of all the similarly-capable monitors I found. This was important in order to fit into the cabinetry. Unfortunately it does not have built-in speakers, necessitating the sound bar. Keyboard: Logitech K120 Wired — The world's cheapest keyboard at $13 a pop. Works perfectly fine for all gaming needs. (See next question, below.) Mouse: Logitech M500s Wired — A cheap 5-button mouse. Unfortunately I've found the middle button is difficult to use without accidentally scrolling. I miss the old MX518. Sound bar: Soulion R30 Wired — This is just some crap I found on Amazon without doing a lot of research, but they seem to work fine. Unfortunately the monitors don't have built-in speakers, but this sound bar is probably better than a typical built-in speaker, so in the end I'm happy with it. Also, in case you are wondering: Game room TV: Samsung 98" QLED 4K Q80C Living room TV: Samsung 85" "The Frame" QLED 4K LS03B Workstation monitor: Samsung 57" Odyssey Neo G9 Dual 4K — Ironically, I use this for work, not games. It's great for coding. Playing games on it gives me vertigo. Dance Pads: L-TEK Ex Pro X After spending all that money, why did you get the cheapest possible keyboard and mouse? To be honest, when I've used more-expensive