Margaret Hamilton, computing pioneer who led software development for the Apollo program, dies at 90 | MIT News | Massachusetts Institute of Technology Skip to content ↓ Massachusetts Institute of Technology MIT Top Menu ↓ Education Research Innovation Admissions + Aid Campus Life News Alumni About MIT More ↓ Search MIT Search websites, locations, and people See More Results Suggestions or feedback? MIT News | Massachusetts Institute of Technology - On Campus and Around the world Subscribe to MIT News newsletter Browse Enter keywords to search for news articles: Submit Browse By Topics View All → Explore: Machine learning Sustainability Startups Black holes Classes and programs Departments View All → Explore: Aeronautics and Astronautics Brain and Cognitive Sciences Architecture Political Science Mechanical Engineering Centers, Labs, & Programs View All → Explore: Abdul Latif Jameel Poverty Action Lab (J-PAL) Picower Institute for Learning and Memory Media Lab Lincoln Laboratory Schools School of Architecture + Planning School of Engineering School of Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences Sloan School of Management School of Science MIT Schwarzman College of Computing View all news coverage of MIT in the media → Listen to audio content from MIT News → Subscribe to MIT newsletter → Close Breadcrumb MIT News Margaret Hamilton, computing pioneer who led software development for the Apollo program, dies at 90 Margaret Hamilton, computing pioneer who led software development for the Apollo program, dies at 90 Over two decades at MIT, Hamilton forged new paths in computer science and engineering. Her groundbreaking work included leading the team that programmed the first computers that took humans to the moon. Watch Video Janine Liberty | Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Publication Date : October 7, 2026 Press Inquiries Press Contact : Janine Liberty Email: jliberty@mit.edu Phone: 617-324-4369 MIT Open Learning Close Caption : “Looking back, we were the luckiest people in the world,” Margaret Hamilton said of her time as an MIT software engineer working with NASA’s Apollo program, which aimed to land the first humans on the moon. “There was no choice but to be pioneers.” Credits : Image: Toan Trinh, MIT Technology Review Caption : A now-famous photo of Margaret Hamilton standing beside listings of the software developed by the Lunar Module and Command and Service Module on-board flight software teams were taken at MIT in 1969. Hamilton led both teams, and more than 400 people, working on Apollo’s software. Credits : Image: MIT News, with photos via MIT Museum Caption : MIT engineers (left to right) Norman Sears, Margaret Hamilton, Phyllis Rye, and Ain Laats discuss their work on the Apollo 8 mission. On the blackboard is a program for Lunar Command-Module navigation. Credits : Image: MIT Museum Caption : For a publicity photo taken at MIT, Hamilton smiled as she flipped a switch in a mockup of an Apollo 12 command module. Credits : Image: MIT Museum Caption : U.S. President Barack Obama presents the Presidential Medal of Freedom to Margaret Hamilton during a ceremony in the East Room of the White House on Nov. 22, 2016. Credits : Image: Lawrence Jackson for the White House Caption : In 2017, Lego released its Women of NASA set, which included likenesses of four women in NASA history, including Margaret Hamilton. Here, Hamilton (center) and original set designer Maia Weinstock (left), deputy editorial director of MIT News, view the near-final prototype for the first time, along with Lego designer Tara Wike ’97. Credits : Image courtesy of Lego Previous image Next image Margaret Hamilton, a profoundly influential computer scientist best known for leading the software engineering team at MIT’s Instrumentation Lab during NASA’s Apollo program, died on Sep. 30. She was 90. A computing pioneer who authored over 130 publications, Hamilton helped to establish software engineering as a dedicated discipline. She worked at MIT from 1959 until the mid-1970s, after which she became a successful computing entrepreneur and CEO. Her life’s work was recognized with many awards and honors,&nbsp; including the 2016 Presidential Medal of Freedom from President Barack Obama, whose citation noted: “Hamilton defined new forms of software engineering and helped launch an industry that would forever change human history. Her software architecture led to giant leaps for humankind, writing the code that helped America set foot on the moon.” “To say Margaret Hamilton was a pioneer — to say she was ahead of her time — would be a dramatic understatement. She was a software engineer at a time when that field was in its infancy, and she not only developed advanced code herself but also led a team in using that nascent technology to develop one of the most complex systems humanity had ever achieved,” says Olivier de Weck, the Apollo Program Professor and interim head of the MIT Department Aeronautics and Astronautics.&nbsp; “The Apollo program still stands as one of our greatest testaments to the power of collaboration, ingenuity, and engineering, and Margaret Hamilton was a fundamental contributor to that program’s success. And for her that was just the beginning! She went on to become an entrepreneur and remained on the cutting edge of systems software throughout an extraordinary career, while acting as an advocate, mentor, and inspiration to millions.” Early life and projects at MIT Born in Paoli, Indiana, in 1936, Hamilton began studying mathematics at the University of Michigan in 1955 before transferring to Earlham College, where she earned a BA in mathematics with a minor in philosophy in 1958. She moved to Boston, Massachusetts, in 1959 with her husband while he pursued a law degree.&nbsp; Hamilton soon found a temporary position in the meteorology department at MIT, working with professor of meteorology Edward N. Lorenz SM ’43, ScD ’48 on weather prediction software. This was her first entry point into computer programming, and her work would go on to inform Lorenz’s future publications on chaos theory. From there, Hamilton took a role as a programmer at MIT Lincoln Laboratory in 1961, working on the&nbsp; Semi-Automatic Ground Environment (SAGE) project, the United States’ first air defense system. Hamilton wrote software for the prototype AN/FSQ-7 computer (XD-1), used by the U.S. Air Force to search for potentially unfriendly aircraft. During this time, Hamilton began to take an interest in software reliability — a new and largely unexplored concept at the time. In 1965 Hamilton was preparing to pursue graduate studies when her husband saw an advertisement in the newspaper: The Instrumentation Lab at MIT was seeking people to develop software to “send man to the moon.” The lab had won the contract from NASA to build the onboard flight software for the Apollo program. Intrigued by the challenge, Hamilton applied, and was hired as the first programmer for the Apollo project at MIT, as well as the first female programmer in the project.&nbsp; Hamilton worked first on the software for the uncrewed Apollo missions and then was promoted into leading the team developing the on-board flight software for the crewed missions. By 1968 she was assistant director in charge of the Command and Service Module team, and more than 400 people were working on Apollo’s software.&nbsp; “From my own perspective, the software experience itself (designing it, developing it, evolving it, watching it perform and learning from it for future systems) was at least as exciting as the events surrounding the mission,” Hamilton&nbsp; told MIT News in 2009 . “There was no second chance. We knew that. We took our work seriously, many of us beginning this journey while still in our 20s. Coming up with solutions and new ideas was an adventure. Dedication and commitment were a given. Mutual respect was across the board. Because software was a mystery, a black box, upper management gave us total freedom and trust. We had to find a way, and we did. Looking back, we were the luckiest people in the world; there was no choice but to be pioneers.” Play video Margaret Hamilton on Software Engineering Video: Hack the Moon/Draper “Defensive” programming and priority-driven software take humans to the moon Hamilton discovered a talent for leadership, as well as a keen instinct for problem-solving and critical thinking that would prove to save Project Apollo several times over.&nbsp; There was&nbsp;the incident that became known as “the Lauren error”: One day, her daughter Lauren, then four years old, was playing with the command module simulator at the Instrumentation Lab when she somehow activated a pre-launch program, called P01, while the simulator was in midflight — which crashed the simulator altogether. Hamilton created a program add-on in the technical documentation warning users not to launch P01 during flight.&nbsp; She also proposed a software fix to prevent the error happening during a real mission, but she was overruled on the grounds that the highly trained astronauts were never going to make that same mistake. Yet during the Apollo 8 mission in 1968, that’s exactly what happened: Jim Lovell inadvertently launched P01 during the flight, causing the on-flight navigational data to vanish. Hamilton and her team were called in to solve the error, and after that her proposed changes were integrated into the program. This was an early example of “defensive” programming, the practice of building software that could anticipate or fix errors on its own.&nbsp; Hamilton’s most famous contribution to the Apollo program came during the pivotal Apollo 11 mission to land on the moon in July of 1969. Moments before the Eagle module was set to land on the lunar surface, the onboard computer raised the alarm. It had detected a 1202 error: The computer was overloaded due to a fault in a hardware switch, and it was possible the system would not be able to handle the complex landing procedure.&nbsp; But Hamilton and her team had engineered priority-driven software, able to shut down unnecessary background tasks in order to prioritize mission-critical tasks. Houston trusted Hamilton’s software and allowed the mission to proceed, and two men walked on the moon for the first time.&nbsp; Later career and legacy Hamilton continued to work at the Instrumentation Lab into the 1970s. As the Apollo program wound down, the Instrumentation Lab spun out of MIT to become the independent Draper Laboratory . “Margaret left an indelible mark on Draper, and we will be forever grateful,” says Jerry M. Wohletz SM ’97, PhD ’00, president and CEO at Draper. “Through her leadership and contributions to the development of the onboard flight software for NASA’s Apollo Guidance Computer, she helped ensure that Apollo astronauts landed safely on the lunar surface and safely returned home. We will honor her legacy at Draper forever.” Hamilton went on to create her first software company, Higher Order Software, in 1976. The firm was based on Hamilton’s software engineering approach of error prevention and fault tolerance.&nbsp; A decade later, Hamilton founded another software company, Hamilton Technologies, “to provide products and services to modernize the planning, system engineering and software development process in order to maximize reliability, lower cost and accelerate time to market.”&nbsp; Hamilton Technologies’ flagship product is the Universal Systems Language (USL), a systems modeling language and methodology for engineering complex software systems that prioritize error prevention and defensive programming.&nbsp; Throughout her career, Hamilton worked to achieve recognition for software engineering as a dedicated discipline.&nbsp; “I fought to bring the software legitimacy so that it — and those building it — would be given its due respect, and thus I began to use the term ‘software engineering’ to distinguish it from hardware and other kinds of engineering, yet treat each type of engineering as part of the overall systems engineering process,” Hamilton&nbsp; told El Pais in 2018 . “When I first started using this phrase, it was considered to be quite amusing. It was an ongoing joke for a long time. They liked to kid me about my radical ideas. Software eventually and necessarily gained the same respect as any other discipline.” Among her many awards and honors, Hamilton was recognized with the NASA Exceptional Space Act Award for scientific and technical contributions in 2003; the Computer History Museum Fellow Award in 2017; the Intrepid Lifetime Achievement Award in 2019; and induction into the National Aviation Hall of Fame in 2022. Later in life, Hamilton become an icon for women in science and technology, especially after a now-famous photo, showing her next to a printout of her MIT team’s Apollo code, began circulating online. In 2015, the Apollo software she helped to develop was&nbsp; added in its entirety to the code-sharing site GitHub. And in 2017, she&nbsp; became an official Lego Minifigure after a set originally designed by MIT science communicator Maia Weinstock, honoring her and several other women of NASA history, became available worldwide.&nbsp; “Margaret Hamilton has been an inspiration to generations of computer scientists and engineers. Hers was a career dedicated to preventing errors and what she called ‘handling the unknown,’” says de Weck. “She personified leadership by example, and established a practice of software engineering based on problem-solving and systems engineering that we all benefit from.”&nbsp; Hamilton is survived by her daughter, Lauren Hamilton; her son-in-law, Richard Selesnick; two grandsons; four great grandchildren; and her siblings John, David, and Kathryn. A memorial service will take place in the spring in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Share this news article on: X Facebook LinkedIn Reddit Print Related Links Article: “Margaret Hamilton” Article: “The Hidden Heroines of Chaos” Oral History of Margaret Hamilton Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Department of Earth, Atmospheric and Planetary Sciences Lincoln Laboratory Draper Related Topics Obituaries Staff History of MIT Space NASA History of science Programming Space exploration Aeronautical and astronautical engineering Spaceflight Computer science and technology Electrical engineering and computer science (EECS) Earth and atmospheric sciences Technology and society EAPS Lincoln Laboratory School of Engineering School of Science Related Articles Behind the scenes of the Apollo mission at MIT Women of NASA Lego set blasts off Apollo code developer Margaret Hamilton receives Presidential Medal of Freedom Scene at MIT: Margaret Hamilton’s Apollo code Previous item Next item More MIT News Using AI to mitigate the growing environmental threat of data centers By rethinking how large cloud computing systems operate, Associate Professor Christina Delimitrou seeks to make data centers more energy efficient. Read full story → Discovering the value of humanistic inquiry Students in MIT’s Concourse program delve deeply into the human condition, debate challenging questions, and learn to develop judgment about issues that can’t be quantified. Read full story → Turning the tide on Massachusetts shellfishing data MIT researchers built a cloud-based platform to help Massachusetts coastal towns and the state manage shellfishing closures, giving thousands of permit holders a clearer view of where they can fish. Read full story → Planning system ensures a robot’s flight path will remain collision-free This new method, called “SANDO,” could help disaster-response robots navigate dangerous, unknown environments. Read full story → Supercomputing researchers document evolution of AI hardware An ongoing survey tracks the latest AI accelerator systems to keep hardware relevant for Lincoln Laboratory staff and sponsors. Read full story → Chris Bourg named vice provost and Barbara K. Ostrom (1978) Director of the MIT Libraries As director, Bourg has focused on digital access, open and equitable scholarly publishing, and expanded support for data-intensive research. Read full story → More news on MIT News homepage → More about MIT News at Massachusetts Institute of Technology This website is managed by the MIT News Office, part of the Institute Office of Communications . News by Schools/College: School of Architecture and Planning School of Engineering School of Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences MIT Sloan School of Management School of Science MIT Schwarzman College of Computing Resources: About the MIT News Office MIT News Press Center Terms of Use Press Inquiries Filming Guidelines RSS Feeds Tools: Subscribe to MIT Daily/Weekly Subscribe to press releases Submit campus news Guidelines for campus news contributors Guidelines on generative AI Massachusetts Institute of Technology MIT Top Level Links: Education Research Innovation Admissions + Aid Campus Life News Alumni About MIT Join us in building a better world. Massachusetts Institute of Technology 77 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, MA, USA Recommended Links: Visit Map (opens in new window) Events (opens in new window) People (opens in new window) Careers (opens in new window) Contact Privacy Accessibility Social Media Hub MIT on X MIT on Facebook MIT on YouTube MIT on Instagram