How accurate have Ed Zitron&#39;s AI skeptic predictions been? How accurate have Ed Zitron&#39;s AI skeptic predictions been? | Patreon I was curious how well the predictions of the most widely cited AI skeptic I've seen (Ed Zitron) have done, so I looked at how his predictions panned out. To disclose my own biases, I've never had a particularly strong pro or anti AI progress position. For example, in 2022, I did a comprehensive look at predictions Futurists made, including well-respected folks like Kurzweil and found them to be generally wrong on both the prediction results as well as the reasoning. On the flip side, in 2015, I wrote about how people were underestimating AI's ability to displace humans in jobs and have repeatedly been on the record as saying that many people are underestimating AI's ability to displace humans from jobs. My position on AI has been extremely boring and is basically, &quot;if something is currently happening, the people who are saying that it's impossible that it will ever happen are probably wrong&quot;. One comment I've seen from a lot of AI skeptics when someone responds to an AI skeptic is that all of the people who are saying that AI isn't fake are self-interested liars. Personally (to my obvious detriment), I have no particular financial interest in AI companies. I own whatever the standard share of them is via boring index funds. I have some seed stage investments, but just due to the timing and what's gotten big, that part of my portfolio is underweight on AI. I don't work at an AI lab or a company that supplies AI labs. I've mentioned being hilariously bad at interviews before, and I did interview at an AI lab a number of years ago and failed the phone screen in a performance that was the kind of performance that must've inspired Jeff Atwood's famous Why Can’t Programmers... Program? where he concludes that there must be a lot of fake programmers out there because nobody could fail a coding interview that badly if they knew how to program. I don't benefit in any particular way if AI does well, except insofar as anyone who holds broad index funds benefits, but I do care about accuracy. 2024: Meta, Google, and Microsoft are dying Because there are quite a few prediction results, let's look at one in detail before the complete list to get an idea of the kind of reasoning Zitron uses. We'll arbitrarily look at this November 2024 talk where Zitron says, among other things, the major tech companies (like Meta and Google) are dying and they're thrashing around on AI because they don't know how to grow . Zitron specifically named Meta as a company that's dying (&quot;it's a dying product, and it's kind of a dying company&quot;). Meta's revenue and profit (GAAP operating income) have been Period Revenue Profit Amount % Amount % 2023 $135B 16% $47B 62% 2024 $165B 22% $69B 48% 2025 $201B 22% $83B 20% First half 2026 $117B 30% $42B 10% When he talked about companies not knowing how to grow (&quot;none of these companies anymore really know how to grow ... in the desperation to try to reignite growth in a dying ecosystem the tech industry is going to shove this [AI] shit into everything&quot;), he named Google and then Microsoft. Alphabet (Google's parent company) has had the following revenue and profit numbers: Period Revenue Profit Amount % Amount % 2023 $307B 9% $84B 13% 2024 $350B 14% $112B 33% 2025 $403B 15% $129B 15% First half 2026 $230B 23% $80B 30% And Microsoft's numbers have been (note that, for consistency, all numbers are calendar year numbers and not fiscal year numbers): Period Revenue Profit Amount % Amount % 2023 $228B 12% $101B 21% 2024 $262B 15% $118B 17% 2025 $305B 17% $143B 21% First half 2026 $173B 18% $79B 19% Although this wouldn't be in the spirit of Zitron's statement, one could argue that Meta is actually dying, it just hasn't died yet. However, the reasoning in Zitron's argument is incorrect here—the Meta, Google, and Microsoft ecosystems are not dying. Given how fast these companies are growing (in terms of revenue and profit), it doesn't seem that AI is, as Zitron implied, some kind of desperation move they're reaching for because &quot;they don't know how to grow&quot; and are all out of ideas. I don't think it's worth spending this much text on each prediction, but the pattern Zitron used here is illustrative. To make the case that these things are dying, he pulls on minor issues that are not positioned to cause the very large changes he suggests are about to occur. For Meta, he cited some kind of alleged MAU drop for Facebook. Rather than use Meta's own MAU figures or any kind of revenue or profit numbers, he seems to have used numbers from Similarweb. My experience with 3rd party tracking numbers like this is that they're quite inaccurate and generally useless for anything other than a rough order of magnitude comparison, making the Zitron's cited decline meaningless. FB stopped reporting MAU publicly in December 2023, but most estimates have FB MAU increasing over time and the numbers Meta does report show generally increasing usage over time for their products; Zitron cherry-picked an outlier low estimate to make his point. For Google, he cites Prabhakar Raghavan, who he calls truly evil and &quot;a computer scientist class traitor that sided with the management consultancy sect&quot;, as having done some kind of grievous damage to Google search. In his rants about Raghavan, he never credibly establishes that Raghavan is doing severe harm to Google search, and the Google search engineers who've commented on his rant don't seem to agree with the Raghavan as sole or even major reason for search issues hypothesis . 1 But even if we posit that Zitron is right and the villain Prabhakar Raghavan defeated the hero Ben Gomes, causing some kind of issue for Google search, this still doesn't make the case that Google revenue growth is in trouble at large because they have a number of other major products (such as YouTube and Google Cloud) that could drive growth even if search wasn't growing. Every significant part of the chain of reasoning here is not only incorrect, it's not plausible if you know anything about Google or big companies in general. I'll be the first person to say that Google search quality has some serious problems and that Google has been increasing the relative priority of revenue over the user experience over time. This was a source of consternation for a number of user-focused engineers at Google when I was there in 2013. For one of the issues Zitron cites, ads being confusing to users, in 2013, I asked a search engineer about Google changing the background color of ads to look more like search results because there was a previous study that showed that more an ad looked like a search result, the more users got confused over whether a result was an ad or a real search result, and I'd heard that Google deliberately made the ads not look like search results to avoid user confusion. The search engineer said that because some people didn't want users to get confused, it was impossible to make ads nearly identical to search results in a single change because it would be too obvious what's going on. The way this was going to happen was that every time you A/B test tweaking ads to look a bit closer to search results, you make a lot more money, so the change would happen over multiple years in multiple parts, each small enough that the people who want to fight back against this kind of thing would have a hard time making a case. That happened just as this engineer predicted, but it was going to happen whether or not Raghavan ended up overseeing search. And, of course, that kind of thing happening doesn't cause Google to run out of room to grow and become desperate to reignite growth in a dying ecosystem. Whether or not you think Google should do it, it's something that makes Google more money. How do people cite Zitron? From what I can tell of how people cite Zitron, they cite him as an authority so they can say that this guy who looked at the numbers has made this claim, so their claim is backed up by the numbers. It turns out that if you look at the claims Zitron makes and know anything about the topic, the claims don't make sense, but I don't think that's the point. The point is one can say that someone looked at the numbers. The other point seems to be that this guy is angry 2 , which is a good way to drive engagement. But when people bring him up, they're of course not generally citing his anger; they're saying here's this guy who's looked at the numbers and, if you're angry about AI, he's right there with you being angry about AI, and he's got numbers on his side. 3 Like I said above, I don't want to go into this level of detail on each claim; this is just an illustrative example about how the claims below look. For any of his posts that I read, while there are numbers thrown around, the numbers don't actually connect to a coherent argument. In many cases, as we saw above, the numbers don't even really support his argument (such as an MAU decline in Facebook causing Meta financial problems which would then cause Meta to spuriously insert AI in places it doesn't belong). I suspect he's relying on people's eyes glazing over when they see numbers and just not thinking about what the numbers mean. With the predictions below, someone could have the exact same prediction record and have completely reasonable reasons that just didn't pan out. Or someone could be correct in every case and also be wrong because all of their reasons are wrong. Someone like the latter person might have some kind of intuition that they're unable to articulate, or perhaps they're someone who just got lucky. Fortunately for us, we don't have to make this difficult judgement call because Zitron is wrong on the predictions and also wrong on the reasoning. People with attention to detail on Zitron Since I've been living under a rock for years and am just catching on the AI discourse , I hadn't actually read or watched anything by Zitron or any of the big AI commentators, but on looking up what people who have good judgement say, they also seem to find that Zitron's use of numbers is just sleight of hand, such as this comment by Juho Snellman : His writing is certainly flamboyant, but the aggression and expletives seem more targeted at hyping up people who already believe the things he writes, not for making people change their minds. He found a niche in anti-tech grift, and is now exploiting the niche for all he can. But you might want to actually fact-check a few of the things he says that convince you, because at least for his written articles basically everything is made up or misrepresented. There's plenty of links to sources, sure, but if you follow them down to the primary source what they're saying is very different from what Zitron is implying Here's an example where commenters seem to assume that Zitron's analysis is good for some reason, to which Juho Snellman replies : &gt; The key problem is that his economic analysis is absolute trash. I used to think he was just totally incompetent at it, but given the bias in the errors, it is pretty clearly intentional deception. But it's often pretty hard to address that, because every article he writes is a 10k word gish gallop. I've tried debunking key points a few times in HN comments for just one of the intentional mistakes he makes, and people complain about the reply being too long. For example, when Timothy B. Lee looked at a spreadsheet that Zitron used to create a projection of Anthropic's revenue , he found He doesn't count February 1-10, counts March 1-10 twice, counts August 21-October 21 as one month instead of two, and doesn't count October 21-November 1. [another commenter notes that his spreadsheet also contains February 30] ... Ed claims he tried to compute Anthropic's revenue for 2025 and came up with $3.6 billion, suggesting some funny business [but the numbers work out once you fix the errors] Some Zitron predictions Feb 2024 : &quot;I believe we're reaching the upper limits about what generative AI can do and how accurate its outputs can be.&quot; Wrong 4 March 2024 : &quot;Have We Reached Peak AI?&quot;; another prediction that hallucinations mean that AI progress is limited to then-current levels Wrong April 2024 : &quot;As I previously warned, artificial intelligence companies are running out of data ...&quot;; another prediction that models can't improve because there's no more data Wrong 5 June 2024 : OpenAI growth is stalling (with the implication it will continue to stall), which will lead to some kind of collapse of OpenAI Wrong (it could be the case that OpenAI will collapse but, if so, it won't be due to any kind of growth stall from 2024) July 2024 : &quot;Generative AI, as I said back in March, is peaking, if it hasn't already peaked. It cannot do much more than it is currently doing, other than doing more of it faster with some new inputs&quot; Wrong July 2024 : &quot;Generative AI models aren’t getting more energy-efficient, nor are they getting more “powerful” in a way that would increase their functionality&quot; Wrong (models continued to get more powerful) 6 August 2024 : &quot;generative AI is a dead-end technology that has peaked” Wrong August 2024 : re-iteration that the AI bubble has 3 quarters to prove itself (from March 2024) or there will be a collapse Wrong (Bartek Ogryczak notes, arguably Right because AI proved itself, but Zitron also argues no improvement, so Wrong by Zitron's accounting) 7 September 2024 : &quot;o1 shows that OpenAI is both desperate and out of ideas&quot;, with a re-iteration of the idea that models can't improve due to lack of data Wrong Oct 2024 : OpenAI's forecast of $3.7B revenue in 2024 and $11.6B in 2025 and $100B in 2029 are absurd, &quot;a statement so egregious that I am surprised it's not some kind of financial crime to say it out loud&quot; Wrong (2025 goal exceeded, 2029 TBD but not an egregious financial crime level of implausible) Oct 2024 : &quot;[OpenAI revenue] growth is already slowing, and will slow dramatically as we enter the new year&quot; Wrong (OpenAI exceeded the forecasts and contiued to grow quickly) Dec 2024 : &quot;I also warned you in March that generative AI had already peaked.” Wrong (also, bizarrely, implying no progress since March 2024) Jan 2025 : &quot;I believe we’re at peak AI&quot; Wrong Jan 2025 : &quot;DeepSeek has commoditized the [LLM]&quot; Wrong (OpenAI and Anthropic had and still have significant pricing power and can maintain prices well above DeepSeek) February 2025 : Anthropic making $34.5B in revenue 2027 is &quot;is laughable on many levels, chief of which is that OpenAI, which made around twice as much revenue as Anthropic did in 2024, barely made a billion dollars from API calls in the same year.&quot; Wrong (whether or not they make that in 2027, their 2026 ARR greatly exceeding that makes the 2027 estimate non-laughable) February 2025 : &quot;Sundar Pichai wants Gemini to be 'used by 500 million people before the end of 2025, 'a number so unrealistic that someone at Google should have been fired, and that someone is Sundar Pichai.&quot; Wrong (Gemini hit 750M users) February 2025 : &quot;Sam Altman deputizing Orion from GPT-5 to GPT-4.5 suggests that OpenAI has hit a wall with making its next model, requiring him to lower expectations&quot;; Wrong (GPT-5 was a substantial improvement over GPT-4.5) February 2025 : &quot;I will keep writing this stuff until I’m proven wrong.&quot; Wrong (Zitron continues to write despite repeatedly being proven wrong) March 2025 : &quot;In my years writing this newsletter I have come across few companies as rotten as CoreWeave ...&quot; Zitron goes on to say that the company will not be able to survive for six months except with fundraising, though $4B raised might by them a year Wrong (CoreWeave still exists and it's currently at more than double its IPO price as of this writing; CoreWeave only raised $1.5B at IPO) April 2025 : Zitron calls the bubble again and says &quot;We're about to find out if I'm right.&quot; Wrong (in that Zitron implied momentous events were about to happen which would prove him right and no such events happened) April 2025 : &quot;It also, at this point, is pretty obvious that generative AI isn't going to do much more than it does today.&quot; Wrong May 2025 : &quot;I do not know how you come away from this story and not think Cohere is going to die. Their projections are so far off from reality.&quot; Technically unfalsifiable because there's no end date, but implied claim is wrong July 2025 : &quot;I am not trying to be dramatic, but it's pretty easy to come to the conclusion that Cursor is going to die&quot; Wrong (Cursor gets a $60B exit) August 2025 : &quot;These models have clearly hit a wall where training is hitting diminishing returns&quot; Wrong August 2025 : Zitron says Cursor is dying and expects that it will sell for a firesale price; a price as high as $10B is not plausbie: &quot;Is Cursor worth $10 billion? Nope! No matter how good its product may or may not be, it is not good enough to be sold at a price that doesn’t require Cursor to incinerate hundreds of millions of dollars with no end in sight.&quot; Wrong October 2025 : In response to the question, “If you had to guess, what is the timeline we are looking at for the AI bubble to pop?”, Zitron answers, &quot;No later than Q2 2026&quot; Wrong Nov 2025 : &quot;the fact we're running out of high quality training data and we're hitting the walls of scaling laws, in the training paradigm, these models aren't getting better. What we're seeing today is pretty much what they're always gonna be like&quot; Wrong After this point, most further predictions that I saw were either non-falsifiable or resolve in the future. Note that I didn't attempt to catalogue statements that are nonsensical or were simply factually incorrect statements at the time, such as his December 2024 claim that “Generative AI's products have effectively been trapped in amber for over a year.” January 2026 claim that &quot;[models are] basically the same as they were a year ago. They have the same efficacy&quot;. Zitron has not only made forward-looking statements that AI capabilities will not improve, he's also consistently made backwards-looking statements that capabilities have not improved which, while obviously false at the time, seem to play well to his base (along with his other false statements). If you connect all his statements together, it's implied that AI had the same capabilities in January 2026 as they did in December 2023 (and if you connect later statements, it's actually implied that capabilities in August 2026 are the same as in December 2023, though to be fair to Zitron he frequently contradicts himself and has also admitted to limited improvement in mid 2026). To be fair, we could say that Zitron is speaking colloquially, so we when he says things like &quot;have effectively been trapped in amber for over a year&quot;, that doesn't mean there's actually be no change December 2023, so the statements aren't transitive. Even if you assume a kind of colloquial sloppiness here, the collection of statements still implies that, from December 2023 to August 2026, improvements have been minimal (perhaps except, as noted above, when he contradicts himself and admits there have been limited improvements in some areas). Comparing to respected Futurists If we compare to how futurists did in our analysis of futurists , on style, Zitron relies much more heavily on anger than any of the futurists we looked at. On the quality of reasoning, he was probably about average compared to the futurists. Despite being wrong on roughly everything, he's not more unreasonable than someone like Buckminster Fuller, who suggested we'll be able to send people by radio because atoms have frequencies and radio waves have freque