LISEP Ludwig Institute for Shared Economic Prosperity Shared Prosperity Shared Economic Prosperity Measure LISEP’s measure of how national income is shared Unemployment True Rate of Unemployment The percentage of the U.S. labor force that is functionally unemployed True Rate of Unemployment Out of the Population True Rate of Unemployment Out of the Population The percentage of the whole U.S. population that is functionally unemployed Informal Economy Income-generating activities conducted outside traditional employment and wage-tracking systems Earnings True Weekly Earnings LISEP’s measure of the weekly earnings of all members of the workforce Cost of Living True Living Cost LISEP’s cost-of-living metric Minimal Quality of Life The true cost of economic well-being Local Local Analysis Localized economic metrics for the 50 largest metropolitan statistical areas Local Unemployment Data The state and local True Rate of Unemployment News &amp; Analysis News News from and about LISEP Analysis Original research and commentary from LISEP economists Books The Mismeasurement of America How outdated government statistics mask the economic struggle of everyday Americans The Vanishing American Dream A frank look at the economic realities facing middle- and lower-income Americans Join the LISEP Mailing List Menu Stay up to date on the latest news from LISEP, and receive an exclusive newsletter when unemployment and earnings numbers are published. Subscribe ! One more step, please ... Thank you. We’ll see you in your inbox. ! Something went wrong. We’re working on it. Subscribe to the LISEP Mailing List × Contact LISEP Subscribe to the LISEP mailing list Send ! One more step, please ... Thank you. Your message is on its way. ! Something went wrong. We’re working on it. × Join the LISEP mailing list True Rate of Unemployment The percentage of the U.S. labor force that is functionally unemployed The functional unemployment rate increased 0.2 percentage points in July, the fourth consecutive monthly increase. Read more True Rate of Unemployment 24.9 % July 2026 Headline Rate of Unemployment 4.1 % July 2026 vs. Using data compiled by the federal government’s Bureau of Labor Statistics, the True Rate of Unemployment tracks the percentage of the U.S. labor force that does not have a full-time job (35+ hours a week) but wants one, has no job, or does not earn a living wage, conservatively pegged at $26,000 (in 2025 dollars) annually before taxes. Just as an accurate census is a prerequisite to funding American communities equitably, policymakers depend on economic indicators to shape economic policy. LISEP developed the True Rate of Unemployment to provide analysts and decision-makers with a more accurate measure of Americans’ financial well-being. For a more in-depth explanation of the True Rate of Unemployment, please reference LISEP’s TRU white paper . True Rate of Unemployment The True Rate of Unemployment (TRU), as defined by LISEP, measures the percentage of the U.S. labor force that is functionally unemployed. Additional Resources: TRU White Paper TRU &amp; TWE Methodology TRU &amp; TWE Source Data True Rate of Unemployment vs. Headline Rate of Unemployment 24.9 % True Rate 4.1 % Headline Rate Select any point on the chart to see the True Rate of Unemployment for that month. True Rate of Unemployment By Race 27.3% Black 26.7% Hispanic 23.8% White Select any point on the chart to see the True Rate of Unemployment for that month. True Rate of Unemployment By Sex 31.0% Female 19.5% Male Select any point on the chart to see the True Rate of Unemployment for that month. True Rate of Unemployment By Education Select any point on the chart to see the True Rate of Unemployment for that month. 50.3% No High School 28.5% High School Diploma 29.5% Some College 16.8% Bachelors Degree 12.8% Advanced Degree Select any point on the chart to see the True Rate of Unemployment for that month. About LISEP Our Mission Our Team Connect Subscribe Contact Us X LinkedIn Facebook Resources White Papers Executive Summaries Methodologies Data Informal Economy White Papers Executive Summaries Methodologies Data Minimal Quality of Life White Papers Executive Summaries Methodologies Data Shared Economic Prosperity Measure White Papers Executive Summaries Methodologies Data True Living Cost White Papers Executive Summaries Methodologies Data True Weekly Earnings White Papers Executive Summaries Methodologies Data True Rate of Unemployment White Papers Executive Summaries Methodologies Data Unmasking GDP White Papers Executive Summaries Methodologies Data Informal Economy White Papers Executive Summaries Methodologies Data Informal Economy White Papers Executive Summaries Methodologies Data Minimal Quality of Life White Papers Executive Summaries Methodologies Data Shared Economic Prosperity Measure White Papers Executive Summaries Methodologies Data TLC &amp; TWE Local Analysis White Papers Executive Summaries Methodologies Data True Living Cost White Papers Executive Summaries Methodologies Data TRU &amp; TWE White Papers Executive Summaries Methodologies Data Unmasking GDP White Papers Executive Summaries Methodologies Data Informal Economy White Papers Executive Summaries Methodologies Data LISEP Local Analysis White Papers Executive Summaries Methodologies Data Minimal Quality of Life White Papers Executive Summaries Methodologies Data Shared Economic Prosperity White Papers Executive Summaries Methodologies Data True Living Cost White Papers Executive Summaries Methodologies Data TRU Local White Papers Executive Summaries Methodologies Data TRU &amp; TWE Terms of Use Privacy Policy © 2026 The Ludwig Institute for Shared Economic Prosperity