Can I opt out of my input or output data being used for training? | Mistral Help Center Copyright (c) 2023, Intercom, Inc. (legal@intercom.io) with Reserved Font Name &quot;Inter&quot;. This Font Software is licensed under the SIL Open Font License, Version 1.1. Skip to main content English Français Italiano English Search ⌘ K Help and Troubleshooting How do I contact support? How do I update my account information (email, password, and 2FA)? How can I upgrade or cancel my subscription? How can I subscribe to Pro on mobile? How can I manage my subscription on mobile (iOS and Android)? Refund policy: eligibility, timing, and how it works I’m a student or a teacher. Am I eligible for a discount? Why am I hitting API rate limits, and how do I increase them? Vibe Le Chat is now Vibe Can I trust the models&#x27; output? Trust, Security, Compliance Data Governance How can I control or delete data connected to third-party tools? As an admin on Team plan or Enterprise, do I have company-wide controls? How do you ensure the security of user data? Can I opt out of my input or output data being used for training? How do you handle my data when using the Memories feature? Who owns input and output in Vibe and Mistral’s APIs? Where do you store my data or my Organization&#x27;s data? How long do you store my data? How does Mistral ensure that my data remains encrypted and secure in transit and at rest? How do you use submitted feedback? How do I export my data from Vibe? How can I manage my cookie settings? How can I delete my account? Do you use my user data to train your Artificial Intelligence models? Do you use cookies at Mistral and why? Do you sell or share my data for marketing? Can I delete a chat conversation? Can I activate Zero Data Retention (ZDR)? Ethical and Safe Use Can children use Mistral products and services? Can other people view my conversations? Do you use my conversations with Vibe to show me ads? How can I report harmful or illegal content? Regulatory Compliance and Certification Do you have a Code of Conduct? Do you have SOC 2 or ISO 27001 certification? How can I exercise my GDPR rights? How does Mistral comply with the EU’s Digital Services Act (DSA)? Can I see your list of technical and organizational security measures? Where can I find your DPA (Data Processing Agreement)? Where can I find your Terms of Service? Who are your subprocessors, and how can I stay updated on changes? About our Models Does Mistral disclose its training datasets? Under which license are Mistral’s open models available? How can I quickly test your AI models? All Collections Trust, Security, Compliance Data Governance Can I opt out of my input or output data being used for training? Can I opt out of my input or output data being used for training? Updated this week Copy for LLM In certain cases, your input and output data (such as conversations, documents, and other user-provided content) may be included in Mistral’s model training programs . 🔑 You retain full control over this processing and have the right to opt out of these programs at any time . The opt-out process depends on the service or platform used , as described below. Opt out of Vibe data training (via the Admin panel) 🔑 Vibe: users are not opted out by default and can opt out at any time in their settings. Vibe (Enterprise): customers are opted out of training by default — the opt-in toggle is managed at the admin level. You can opt out of training through the Admin panel by following the procedure below: Select Vibe under the Manage section. Under the Privacy section, disable the toggle labelled Allow your interactions to be used to train our models . 📌 Documents attached or uploaded within Vibe are considered as input data . Therefore, you may wish to opt out to prevent such documents from being used to improve Mistral’s models. 🔑 Once the opt-out is confirmed, Mistral no longer uses your input or output data for the purpose of training its models. Opt out of Vibe data training on the mobile application (iOS and Android) On both iOS and Android , the opt-out procedure is as follows: Open the Settings page of the application. Select Data &amp; Account Controls under the Account section. In the Data &amp; Account Controls panel, deselect the Enable data sharing checkbox to opt out of Mistral’s training program. Opt out of Mistral Studio and API data training (via the Admin panel) 🔑 Customers retain full control over this processing and have the right to opt out at any time. You may opt out of data training for Mistral Studio and related API services by following the steps below: In the Admin panel , open the Privacy menu in the left-hand navigation bar. Under the Anonymous improvement data section, disable the toggle to prevent API calls and related data from being used to improve Mistral’s services. 🔑 Vibe and API opt-out toggles are separate. Opting out of one does not opt you out of the other — you must configure each toggle individually. Did this answer your question? Related Articles Can I activate Zero Data Retention (ZDR)? Do you use my user data to train your Artificial Intelligence models? Can other people view my conversations? How can I exercise my GDPR rights? How do you handle my data when using the Memories feature? On this page Opt out of Vibe data training (via the Admin panel) Opt out of Vibe data training on the mobile application (iOS and Android) Opt out of Mistral Studio and API data training (via the Admin panel) Frontier AI in your hands Terms of Service Privacy Policy Data Processing Addendum Legal notice