‘We Hacked the FBI:’ Hackers Say They Have Data on All FBI Employees Account Log in Subscribe Navigation Home About RSS Support/FAQ Podcast FOIA Forum Archive Merch Advertise Privacy Contact Us/Tips Follow us Twitter Bluesky Mastodon Instagram TikTok Facebook RSS Sign in Subscribe About RSS Support/FAQ Podcast FOIA Forum Archive Merch Advertise Privacy Contact Us/Tips Advertisement &bull; Go ad free Hacking ‘We Hacked the FBI:’ Hackers Say They Have Data on All FBI Employees Joseph Cox · Sep 22, 2026 at 12:48 PM A sample of 5,000 alleged agents seen by 404 Media includes names, addresses, phone numbers, and details on FBI employees&#x27; spouses. Image: jossuppy on Flickr . A high profile hacking group claims it has breached multiple FBI-related services and stolen data “on all FBI employees and applicants.” A representative of the group, called ShinyHunters, told 404 Media the data includes FBI agents’ names, home addresses, phone number, and information on their spouse. The data breach could be massively significant and may have all sorts of national security and counterintelligence implications. Criminals from the same ecosystem as ShinyHunters have previously used hacked data like phone records to track , intimidate, and harass the FBI agents investigating them. The highly sensitive data could also be a boon to foreign intelligence agencies who want to better understand how one of the most important law enforcement and intelligence agencies in the U.S. operates. And if the data fell into the hands of more criminals, FBI agents and their spouses could face serious threats to their safety. “We hacked the FBI. We hold data on all FBI employees and applicants,” the representative of the group told 404 Media. 💡 Do you work at the FBI? Do you know anything else about this hack? I would love to hear from you. Using a non-work device, you can message me securely on Signal at joseph.404 or send me an email at joseph@404media.co. This post is for paid members only Become a paid member for unlimited ad-free access to articles, bonus podcast content, and more. Subscribe Sign up for free access to this post Free members get access to posts like this one along with an email round-up of our week's stories. Subscribe Already have an account? Sign in More like this Hackers Are Hijacking Entire Roblox Games Now Whereas Roblox hackers were previously focused on stealing players&#x27; high value items, some have taken over entire Roblox games, stealing their ownership and Robux in the process. Joseph Cox · Jun 16, 2026 Hacker Compromises a16z-Backed Phone Farm, Tries to Post Memes Calling a16z the ‘Antichrist’ Doublespeed uses a phone farm to flood social media with AI-generated influencers. A hacker managed to get into a backend system of the company. Joseph Cox , Emanuel Maiberg · Apr 13, 2026 The Viral Smart Toothbrush Botnet Story Is Not Real &quot;FortiGuard Labs has not observed Mirai or other IoT botnets target toothbrushes or similar embedded devices.&quot; Jason Koebler · Feb 7, 2024 Americans Fear AI Will Make the World Worse, Love It Anyway Wealthy countries with many daily AI users tended to fear more for the future in what Gallup called the &#x27;Paradox of the Worried West.&#x27; Matthew Gault · Sep 23, 2026 Meta Tests Muse AI Agent Calls That Are Actually Made By Humans in a Call Center &quot;This has potential for so much negative PR. It could portray us as ‘their AI is not good enough so they still need humans’ kind of coverage for this launch.&quot; Jason Koebler · Sep 22, 2026 People Training OpenAI’s AI Fired for Using AI to Train the AI OpenAI has thousands and thousands of contractors helping improve the company&#x27;s AI models. Multiple contractors have been fired for using AI to train the AI. Joseph Cox · Sep 22, 2026 Advertisement &bull; Go ad free Advertisement &bull; Go ad free &bull; Hide Unparalleled access to hidden worlds both online and IRL. 404 Media is an independent media company founded by technology journalists Jason Koebler, Emanuel Maiberg, Samantha Cole, and Joseph Cox. About RSS Support/FAQ Podcast FOIA Forum Archive Merch Advertise Privacy Contact Us/Tips Twitter Bluesky Mastodon Instagram TikTok Facebook RSS Join the newsletter to get the latest updates. Success Great! Check your inbox and click the link to confirm your subscription &copy; &nbsp;2026&nbsp;404 Media. Published with&nbsp; Ghost .