Private German rocket makes history, reaches orbit from European soil | Space Skip to main content Join - Join our community JOIN NOW 5 Premium benefits 24/7 Access available 23K+ Active Members Expert insights In-depth guides and features Curated newsletters Handpicked inspiration Early Access Preview new releases first Achievements Earn badges as you explore Join the conversation Comment and connect Tailored for you Personalised recommendations Get Space+ Access Quick For the quickest way to join, enter your email below. We&rsquo;ll send a confirmation email and sign you up to Space.com newsletters with the latest inspiration, expert advice and exclusive offers. Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands By submitting your information you agree to the Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over. FIND OUT ABOUT OUR MAGAZINE Want to subscribe to the magazine? Click the button below to find out more information. Find out more Get Space+ Access Quick Join The Club for quick access. Enter your email below and we'll send confirmation, and sign you up to our newsletter. Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Sign Up By submitting your information, you confirm you are aged 16 or over, have read our Privacy Policy and agree to the Terms &amp; Conditions . Geographical rules apply. Welcome to Space+ ! Hi , Your membership journey starts here. Keep exploring and earning more as a member. MY ACCOUNT Earn your first badge Start reading to unlock your first badge Keep earning badges Explore ways to get more involved as a member. Space Exploration Latest space missions, discoveries and exploration updates. Explore Astronomy Stargazing tips, cosmic events and expert insights on the universe Explore Your membership perks Start exploring exclusive deals, expert advice and more Explore now Never Miss a Discovery Space news, cosmic updates and expert insights straight to your inbox. Choose your newsletters Sign Out Open menu Space Sign in View Profile Sign out Feed Search Search Space Space Exploration Launches &amp; Spacecraft Private spaceflight Human spaceflight SpaceX Blue Origin Virgin Galactic United Launch Alliance Search for Life Exoplanets SETI Aliens Missions International Space Station Space Shuttle Apollo Artemis Voyager Asteroid &amp; Comet Missions Mars rovers New Horizons Parker Solar Probe Satellites Astronomy Solar System The Sun Asteroids Mars Comets Mercury Jupiter Saturn Pluto Venus Dwarf Planets Neptune Uranus The Moon Moon Phases The Earth Live 4K video from space Climate Change Weather The Universe Stars Black Holes Dark Universe Galaxies Deep Space James Webb Space Telescope Hubble Space Telescope Stargazing Skywatching Kit Telescopes Cameras Astrophotography Eclipses Lunar Eclipses Solar Eclipses Entertainment Space Movies &amp; Shows Star Trek Star Wars Space Games Space Toys &amp; Lego Space Books Tech &amp; Science Technology Drones Aerospace Science Particle Physics Astrophysics Videos More Subscribe to our Newsletters Get the Space.com App! About Us Web Notifications Home Space Exploration View Space Exploration Launches &amp; Spacecraft View Launches &amp; Spacecraft Private spaceflight Human spaceflight SpaceX Blue Origin Virgin Galactic United Launch Alliance Search for Life View Search for Life Exoplanets SETI Aliens Missions View Missions International Space Station Space Shuttle Apollo Artemis Voyager Asteroid &amp; Comet Missions Mars rovers New Horizons Parker Solar Probe Satellites Astronomy View Astronomy Solar System View Solar System The Sun Asteroids Mars Comets Mercury Jupiter Saturn Pluto Venus Dwarf Planets Neptune Uranus The Moon View The Moon Moon Phases The Earth View The Earth Live 4K video from space Climate Change Weather The Universe View The Universe Stars Black Holes Dark Universe Galaxies Deep Space View Deep Space James Webb Space Telescope Hubble Space Telescope Stargazing View Stargazing Skywatching Kit View Skywatching Kit Telescopes Cameras Astrophotography Eclipses View Eclipses Lunar Eclipses Solar Eclipses Entertainment View Entertainment Space Movies &amp; Shows View Space Movies &amp; Shows Star Trek Star Wars Space Games Space Toys &amp; Lego Space Books Tech &amp; Science Technology View Technology Drones Aerospace Science View Science Particle Physics Astrophysics Videos More Subscribe to our Newsletters Get the Space.com App! About Us Web Notifications Space Get the Space.com Newsletter Breaking space news, the latest updates on rocket launches, skywatching events and more! Become a Member in Seconds Unlock instant access to exclusive member features. Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors By submitting your information you agree to the Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over. You are now subscribed Your newsletter sign-up was successful Want to add more newsletters? Delivered daily Daily Newsletter Breaking space news, the latest updates on rocket launches, skywatching events and more! Signup + Once a month Watch This Space Sign up to our monthly entertainment newsletter to keep up with all our coverage of the latest sci-fi and space movies, tv shows, games and books. Signup + Once a week Night Sky This Week Discover this week's must-see night sky events, moon phases, and stunning astrophotos. Sign up for our skywatching newsletter and explore the universe with us! Signup + Twice a month Strange New Words Space.com's Sci-Fi Reader's Club. Read a sci-fi short story every month and join a virtual community of fellow science fiction fans! Signup + Join the club Get full access to premium articles, exclusive features and a growing list of member rewards. Explore An account already exists for this email address, please log in. Space Exploration Launches &amp; Spacecraft Private German rocket makes history, reaches orbit from European soil News By Mike Wall Last updated 5 September 2026 "This is right now making history &mdash; making history for Spectrum, making history for Isar, making history for Europe." When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here&rsquo;s how it works . Click for next article Isar Aerospace's second Spectrum rocket launches from Andoya Space Center in Norway on Sept. 5, 2026. (Image credit: Isar Aerospace) Copy link Facebook X Whatsapp Reddit Pinterest Flipboard Email Share this article 0 Join the conversation Follow us Add us as a preferred source on Google Newsletter Subscribe to our newsletter No rocket had ever reached orbit from Western European soil &mdash; until today. The German company Isar Aerospace launched its Spectrum rocket from And&oslash;ya Space Center in northern Norway today (Sept. 5) at 4:12 p.m. EDT (2012 GMT; 10:12 p.m. local time in Norway). A little over seven minutes later, it etched its name into the record books, settling into an elliptical path around our planet. "This is right now making history &mdash; making history for Spectrum, making history for Isar, making history for Europe,&rdquo; Nikolaos Perakis, Spectrum chief engineer at Isar, said during today's launch webcast, which the company produced in collaboration with NASASpaceflight . "I'm incredibly proud of this massive achievement." The view from the second stage of Isar Aerospace's Spectrum rocket after it reached orbit on Sept. 5, 2026. (Image credit: Isar Aerospace/NASASpaceflight) This was Spectrum's second bite at the apple: The two-stage, 95-foot-tall (28-meter-tall) rocket first flew in March 2025, lifting off from And&oslash;ya on a flight Isar called "Going Full Spectrum." But, as often happens on debut missions, Spectrum suffered an anomaly that day; it came crashing back to Earth less than a minute after launch. "A comprehensive investigation was completed within two months of the launch," Isar wrote in a September 2025 update . "The findings identified an unintended opening of the vent valve and a loss of attitude control at the start of the roll maneuver as the initiating events that led to the in-flight failure." You may like 'The dawn of a new space era': Vikram-1, India's 1st private orbital rocket, aces debut launch Rocket issue delays 1st orbital rocket launch from the UK Powerful Ariane 6 rocket launches European weather satellite to orbit (video) The company took the lessons learned that day and geared up for flight number two, "Onward and Upward," which was originally supposed to launch in January. An issue with a pressurization valve nixed that plan, however, pushing the flight to March. Bad weather and an intruding boat scuttled multiple attempts that month, and an April 9 try was scrubbed due to a leak in a composite overwrapped pressure vessel. Signup to our newsletter Follow us on Google Isar next tried to fly on June 15 but stood down after "detecting off-nominal behavior in the vehicle's fluid systems," according to a company update that day on X . But the company got that issue under control, rolling Spectrum back to the pad for today's launch. "We had some delays, obviously," Petrakis said during the webcast. "We had some setbacks, but we came back stronger from them. And it validates this tremendous amount of engineering across all the teams, and that's what brings us into orbit." Spectrum didn't carry viable payloads on its debut flight, but it did today: Five cubesats and one non-deployable scientific experiment went up on "Onward and Upward." What to read next Launching from 2 continents: Germany's Isar Aerospace leases Canadian pad for $150 million European rocket launches record-breaking mission with Amazon internet satellites (video) Getting Vikram-1 to orbit: Inside Skyroot Aerospace's coming bid to make spaceflight history Spectrum's upper stage needed to deploy those payloads before Isar could declare full mission success. And deployment couldn't occur until after the rocket performed a circularization burn to get out of its initial elliptical orbit, which was estimated to feature a closest approach to Earth of 112 miles (180 kilometers) and a farthest-away point of 311 miles (500 km). Spectrum was able to check those boxes, ultimately deploying the payloads as planned, Isar announced via X about two hours after launch. So today was a very big day for Isar, which is thinking big with Spectrum. The company sees the rocket &mdash; which can haul about 2,200 pounds (1,000 kilograms) of payload to low Earth orbit &mdash; becoming a workhorse launcher of small to medium-size satellites down the road, and its infrastructure supports that vision. Isar says its manufacturing facility near Munich can churn out more than 30 of the rockets per year. &ldquo;Flight 2 is a big, big milestone, big success," Petrakis said. "But this is just the beginning. So I'm really looking forward to the next steps." Spectrum is the first rocket to reach orbit from Western Europe, but others have long flown from a different part of the continent &mdash; the Russian part. For example, Plesetsk Cosmodrome has hosted orbital launches for about six decades now. (About 25% of Russia lies in Europe, with the rest classified as part of Asia.) Editor's note: This story was updated at 4:45 p.m. ET with news of successful launch and orbital insertion, then again at 8:35 p.m. ET with news of payload deployment. View More You must confirm your public display name before commenting Please logout and then login again, you will then be prompted to enter your display name. Logout Mike Wall Social Links Navigation Spaceflight and Tech Editor Michael Wall is the Spaceflight and Tech Editor for Space.com and joined the team in 2010. He primarily covers human and robotic spaceflight, military space, and exoplanets, but has been known to dabble in the space art beat. His book about the search for alien life, "Out There," was published on Nov. 13, 2018. Before becoming a science writer, Michael worked as a herpetologist and wildlife biologist. He has a Ph.D. in evolutionary biology from the University of Sydney, Australia, a bachelor's degree from the University of Arizona, and a graduate certificate in science writing from the University of California, Santa Cruz. To find out what his latest project is, you can follow Michael on Twitter. Read more Launches &amp; Spacecraft 'The dawn of a new space era': Vikram-1, India's 1st private orbital rocket, aces debut launch &nbsp; &nbsp; Launches &amp; Spacecraft Rocket issue delays 1st orbital rocket launch from the UK &nbsp; &nbsp; Launches &amp; Spacecraft Powerful Ariane 6 rocket launches European weather satellite to orbit (video) &nbsp; &nbsp; Launches &amp; Spacecraft Launching from 2 continents: Germany's Isar Aerospace leases Canadian pad for $150 million &nbsp; &nbsp; Launches &amp; Spacecraft European rocket launches record-breaking mission with Amazon internet satellites (video) &nbsp; &nbsp; Launches &amp; Spacecraft Getting Vikram-1 to orbit: Inside Skyroot Aerospace's coming bid to make spaceflight history &nbsp; &nbsp; Latest in Launches &amp; Spacecraft Launches &amp; Spacecraft India sends Earth-imaging satellite toward geosynchronous orbit in milestone launch (video) &nbsp; &nbsp; Launches &amp; Spacecraft Falcon Heavy brings the heat | Space photo of the day for Sept. 2, 2026 &nbsp; &nbsp; Launches &amp; Spacecraft China's private, reusable Pallas-1 rocket aces debut launch (video) &nbsp; &nbsp; Launches &amp; Spacecraft 'No guts, no glory': How I captured NASA's Roman Space Telescope cross the sun on a picture-perfect SpaceX Falcon Heavy launch &nbsp; &nbsp; Launches &amp; Spacecraft Roman telescope leaves its rocket behind | Space photo of the day for Aug. 31, 2026 &nbsp; &nbsp; Launches &amp; Spacecraft SpaceX, NASA delay next astronaut launch to ISS due to leak on Dragon spacecraft &nbsp; &nbsp; Latest in News Space Movies &amp; Shows This Week In Space podcast: Episode 226 &mdash; Who Owns The Moon? &nbsp; &nbsp; Space Exploration On this day in space! Sept. 5, 1977: NASA launches Voyager 1 on epic journey across the solar system &nbsp; &nbsp; Galaxies Scientists detect signals of hydrogen from billions of years ago. Could this help us map out the universe? &nbsp; &nbsp; Space Movies &amp; Shows Trekkies honor 'Star Trek's' 60th birthday with fan events, special screenings, and a world record Vulcan salute &nbsp; &nbsp; Comets Scientists watch a comet being born 3 billion miles away &nbsp; &nbsp; Space Exploration On this day in space! Sept. 4, 1962: NASA's Mariner 2 spacecrafts performs the 1st-ever maneuver in deep space so it could reach Venus &nbsp; &nbsp; Space is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site . Add as a preferred source on Google About Us Contact Future's experts Terms and conditions Privacy policy Cookies policy Accessibility Statement Advertise with us Web notifications Careers &copy; Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street, New York, NY 10036. Close Please login or signup to comment Please wait... Login Sign Up