Jury finds Facebook liable for deceiving users in Cambridge Analytica case - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War Cuba Plans World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds U.S. Iran War Cuba Plans Midterms World Politics HealthWatch MoneyWatch Entertainment Crime Sports The Free Press Watch CBS News U.S. Jury finds Facebook liable for deceiving users in Cambridge Analytica case Updated on: September 25, 2026 / 6:26 PM EDT / CBS/AP Add CBS News on Google A New Mexico jury on Friday found Facebook liable for deceiving users about privacy protections on the social media platform. It is now up to the judge to determine how much the company would pay, with attorneys representing the state asking for the maximum $5,000 penalty per violation. The two-week trial in Santa Fe centered on accusations that Facebook deceived users about a data breach stemming from a third-party personality quiz that harvested data from roughly 87 million profiles and sold it to a political consulting firm, Cambridge Analytica , to generate targeted ads. The now-defunct firm's clients included the 2016 campaign for President Trump.&nbsp; Jurors sided with prosecutors, finding Facebook's failure to protect users' data impacted New Mexico's entire population of more than 2 million people.&nbsp; "For years, Facebook operated as if the rules that apply to everyone else didn't apply to them. Today, a jury of New Mexicans said otherwise," New Mexico Attorney General Ra&uacute;l Torrez said in a statement. "This is a historic verdict, not just for New Mexico, but for every state fighting to hold Big Tech accountable." Jurors also found Facebook misled the public about investigations into data brokers following the Cambridge Analytica scandal , finding the company liable for over 2 million violations.&nbsp; In this photo illustration, the Facebook logo is seen displayed on a smartphone screen. Photo Illustration by Thomas Fuller/SOPA Images/LightRocket via Getty Images During closing arguments, lawyers for Facebook claimed the state's evidence was outdated and that despite having five years to gather material, New Mexico failed to find more than one other instance of a data breach. A Meta spokesperson told CBS News the company disagreed with the jury's verdict and will continue to defend "against efforts to distort our records." The company also noted that free speech issues "featured very prominently" in the case.&nbsp; "We have a First Amendment right to manage those platforms in a way we believe best serves the interests of our community," the spokesperson said. "This means prioritizing free speech, protecting our users' information and giving them control over their data."&nbsp; Meta agreed in August to pay up to $18 billion to settle the multistate lawsuit surrounding child safety issues. Buried in the 130-page settlement was an agreement to release Meta from future liability related to the Cambridge Analytica privacy breach, making New Mexico the only state to pursue a case. Florida was the only other state that did not sign the settlement, saying it was not tough enough on Meta. Also this year, New Mexico won judgments totaling $942 million from Meta in a two-phase trial about the company's safety protections for minors. Furthermore, the court ordered Meta to implement new safeguards, including age-verification technology and time limits on its platforms.&nbsp; "Let this be a warning to every technology company doing business in our state," Torrez said Friday. "If you lie to New Mexicans about how you use their data, we will find out, and we will hold you accountable." More from CBS News TikTok settles lawsuit over youth safety concerns for at least $100 million Jane Doe who accused Jay-Z of sexual assault formally recants her claims Dolly Parton's estate granted restraining order against her nephew Cybercriminal group claims it stole FBI personnel and applicant data Go deeper with The Free Press Meta Will Spend Millions for Teen Therapy. It&rsquo;s a Mistake. Mark Zuckerberg&rsquo;s Courtroom Reckoning In: New Mexico Lawsuit Facebook Meta Cambridge Analytica &copy; 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. The Associated Press contributed to this report. What Meta's massive $17 billion social media addiction settlement means for your family 04:07 What Meta's massive $17 billion social media addiction settlement means for your family (04:07) TikTok settles lawsuit over youth safety concerns for at least $100 million Jane Doe who accused Jay-Z of sexual assault formally recants her claims Dolly Parton's estate granted restraining order against her nephew Meta Will Spend Millions for Teen Therapy. It&rsquo;s a Mistake. Featured Political News Iran War Latest NFL Scores College Football Rankings Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright &copy;2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue