Man discovers his parents’ coffee machine used 1TB of data in 10 days - Dexerto Gaming Popular View All Games Call of Duty Pokemon Overwatch Fortnite Destiny Battlefield GTA Arc Raiders More Gaming EA Sports FC Valorant Apex Legends League of Legends Diablo Counter-Strike 2 Genshin Impact Honkai Star Rail Roblox Deadlock Baldur&#x27;s Gate Minecraft World of Warcraft Palworld TV &amp; Movies Popular View All TV &amp; Movies Stranger Things Fallout The Boys Marvel DC Anime True Crime Horror More TV &amp; Movies Netflix Apple TV Hulu Prime Video Disney+ Entertainment Entertainment View All Entertainment YouTube Twitch Kick TikTok More Entertainment Viral Food Wikis Wikis View All Wikis Call of Duty: Black Ops 7 guides Battlefield 6 guides Subnautica 2 guides Forza Horizon 6 guides Pokemon Legends Z-A guides Windrose guides Ball x Pit guides Neverness to Everness guides ARC Raiders guides Videos More More About Us Meet The Team See Dexerto First on Google Editorial Standards &amp; Review Policies Advertise With Us Archive Log in Sign up Gaming Popular View All Games Call of Duty Pokemon Overwatch Fortnite Destiny Battlefield GTA Arc Raiders More Gaming EA Sports FC Valorant Apex Legends League of Legends Diablo Counter-Strike 2 Genshin Impact Honkai Star Rail Roblox Deadlock Baldur&#x27;s Gate Minecraft World of Warcraft Palworld TV &amp; Movies Popular View All TV &amp; Movies Stranger Things Fallout The Boys Marvel DC Anime True Crime Horror More TV &amp; Movies View All TV &amp; Movies Netflix Apple TV Hulu Prime Video Disney+ Entertainment Entertainment View All Entertainment YouTube Twitch Kick TikTok More Entertainment Viral Food Wikis Wikis View All Wikis Call of Duty: Black Ops 7 guides Battlefield 6 guides Subnautica 2 guides Forza Horizon 6 guides Pokemon Legends Z-A guides Windrose guides Ball x Pit guides Neverness to Everness guides ARC Raiders guides Videos More More About Us Meet The Team See Dexerto First on Google Editorial Standards &amp; Review Policies Advertise With Us Archive Trending Modern Warfare 4 Twitch EA FC 27 Wardogs GTA 6 Entertainment Man discovers his parents’ coffee machine used 1TB of data in 10 days by Joe Pring Published: Oct 07, 2026, 16:07 Save for later Save for later Add as a preferred source on Google Follow on Google News A man has decided to buy his parents a new coffee maker after discovering their smart machine broadcast a massive 1TB of data in just 10 days. Going by Nomad, the man shared his discovery on X after checking their parents’ network activity and finding that their coffee maker had generated far more traffic than they expected. Smart coffee maker broadcasts 1TB of data in 10 days After his post went viral, Nomad explained that he had worked in IT for more than 10 years and decided to look further into what had happened. Article continues after ad He found that while the coffee maker had generated 1TB of traffic, most of it stayed within his parents’ home network rather than being sent over the internet. “This is likely a bug with this unit,” he explained. “It did saturate my AP, that sucked.” In simpler terms, the coffee maker was generating so much traffic that it overwhelmed part of the home Wi-Fi setup. Hey uh, @Keurig – what the hell is a COFFEE MACHINE uploading, let me double check… ONE FUCKING TERABYTE OF DATA IN 10 DAYS!?!? Immediately unplugging that. Getting my parents a new coffee machine. pic.twitter.com/tTHMYC7hND — Nomad (@NomadsGalaxy) October 6, 2026 Nomad considered digging deeper to find out exactly what the machine was doing, but ultimately decided it wasn’t worth keeping the device connected. Article continues after ad Article continues after ad “It’s not worth keeping an IOT device connected that has the capability of bugging out and causing saturation like this did,” he said. The coffee maker belonged to his parents, with Nomad explaining that he helps them manage their internet setup remotely. “For those wondering why this is on my network, this belongs to my parents. I don’t police what they buy. I just help with their network, but this is a learning experience for them.” Related Smart pet feeder outage makes pets miss their regular food Twitch fans rally behind 1-viewer streamer after mom attacks him with thousands watching “Genius” Airbnb guest praised for using 15,000 gallons of water to run laundromat Article continues after ad More Entertainment News Featured Articles Roblox Paint to Get Rich codes (October 2026) Gaming Sega is selling a $21,000 Sonic figure containing his “DNA” GTA GTA Online LS Tags &amp; spray paint locations today (October 9) GTA Gun Van location today in GTA Online (October 9) Gaming Where to find the Capybara in Peak (October 9) Sign up to Dexerto For The latest News, Views &amp; Reviews Better Reading Experience | Save Your Favourite Items Sign up For You ↓ Call of Duty caster Maven quits after admitting relationship with co-commentator’s ex-wife Next Sign up to Dexerto for the latest news, views &amp; reviews Better Reading Experience | Save Your Favourite Items Sign up About About Us Editorial Standards &amp; Review Policy Meet The Team Advertise with us Privacy Cookies Policy Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Acceptable Use Policy Contact Contact Us © Copyright 2026 Dexerto Ltd. All rights reserved. keep reading Pokemon Streamer hands Pokemon scalpers job application after ruining vending machine “trick” Food Woman builds a Starbucks in her house and people can’t believe it Gaming Gamers celebrate as Reddit-funded internet cafe in one of the most dangerous countries turns 5 TikTok Maintenance worker warns others to “never” drink coffee from a vending machine