Shutting down our public encrypted DNS servers and sponsoring Quad9 instead | Mullvad VPN Skip to main content Mullvad Logo Menu Products and services VPN Browser Browser extension Pricing Privacy Why privacy matters Technical resources Downloads Tech blog &amp; news Open source Check for leaks Servers Help and support Guides FAQ VPN Browser Pricing Downloads Why privacy matters Log in Get started Shutting down our public encrypted DNS servers and sponsoring Quad9 instead September 3, 2026 News Mullvad has operated public encrypted DNS (DoH) servers since 2022. They are unnecessary when using Mullvad VPN &mdash; traffic is already encrypted and Mullvad VPN's internal DNS handles all queries. Outside the VPN, they serve two purposes: Mullvad Browser uses them by default when you're not on Mullvad VPN, preventing your ISP from seeing the domains you visit. Anyone can use them as a free public service to protect their DNS queries. We want a public service to be available. Going forward, we will support Quad9 instead of running it ourselves. Running a privacy-focused public DNS service is a highly specialized undertaking, and the Quad9 Foundation is the undisputed leader in the field. Rather than duplicating their efforts to achieve only part of what they do, we're putting those resources toward financially supporting Quad9 instead. Migrating to Quad9 If you have manually configured our DoH servers, switch before November 2nd 2026 . You can follow Quad9 guides . Mullvad Browser Mullvad Browser users who have kept the default DoH settings or the included ad blocking one, will automatically be migrated to Quad9. If you have customized the DoH, we will not change them. If you have manually configured a variant of the Mullvad DoH (base, extended, family. etc.), please make sure to change it back to the default. iOS and macOS profiles Any existing iOS and macOS Mullvad DoH profile will stop working, please make sure to replace them with Quad9 iOS profiles or macOS profiles . Mullvad About Help Servers Pricing Blog Mullvad VPN Mullvad Browser Why privacy matters Why Mullvad VPN? What is a VPN? Downloads Stop chat control Press Careers Policies Policies Open source Privacy policy Cookies Terms of service Partnerships and resellers Reviews, ads and affiliates Reporting a bug or vulnerability Address Mullvad VPN AB Box 53049 400 14 Gothenburg Sweden support@mullvadvpn.net GPG key Onion service Follow us @mullvadnet @mullvadnet Mullvad VPN mullvad Language English العربيّة Dansk Deutsch English Español فارسی Suomi Français Italiano 日本語 한국어 Nederlands Norsk Polski Português Русский Svenska ภาษาไทย Türkçe Українська 简体中文 繁體中文