Court Agrees with EFF: Utah’s VPN Law Demands a Technical Impossibility | Electronic Frontier Foundation Skip to main content About Contact Press People Opportunities Issues Free Speech Privacy Creativity and Innovation Transparency International Security Artificial Intelligence Our Work Deeplinks Blog Press Releases Events Legal Cases Whitepapers Podcasts Annual Reports Take Action Action Center Volunteer Follow EFF Tools Privacy Badger Surveillance Self-Defense Certbot Atlas of Surveillance Cover Your Tracks Street Level Surveillance apkeep Shop Donate Donate to EFF Shop Giving Societies Sponsorships Other Ways to Give Membership FAQ Email updates on news, actions, and events in your area. Join EFF Lists Copyright (CC BY) Trademark Privacy Policy Thanks Electronic Frontier Foundation Donate If you use technology, this fight is yours. Donate today EFFecting Change: Protect the Vote on October 8 Electronic Frontier Foundation About Contact Press People Opportunities Issues Free Speech Privacy Creativity and Innovation Transparency International Security Artificial Intelligence Our Work Deeplinks Blog Press Releases Events Legal Cases Whitepapers Podcasts Annual Reports Take Action Action Center Volunteer Follow EFF Tools Privacy Badger Surveillance Self-Defense Certbot Atlas of Surveillance Cover Your Tracks Street Level Surveillance apkeep Shop Donate Donate to EFF Shop Giving Societies Sponsorships Other Ways to Give Membership FAQ Court Agrees with EFF: Utah’s VPN Law Demands a Technical Impossibility DEEPLINKS BLOG By Rindala Alajaji October 1, 2026 Court Agrees with EFF: Utah’s VPN Law Demands a Technical Impossibility Español When state lawmakers attempt to rewrite how the internet works, users rely on courts to recognize that laws can’t make technical impossibilities a reality. That’s why we were happy to see that a court has blocked Utah’s attempt to outlaw the privacy protections of Virtual Private Networks (VPNs). In a win for digital rights, a federal judge has issued a preliminary injunction blocking Utah’s SB 73, the state’s draconian anti-VPN age verification law . The decision comes as EFF submitted our comments to the Utah Department of Commerce, detailing how forcing platforms to detect and block privacy-preserving tools undermines user privacy and security worldwide while demanding the impossible. What SB 73 Does Signed into law earlier this year , SB 73 attempted to regulate adult websites by requiring them to block VPN users or to identify the physical location of visitors using them or similar tools that mask their network traffic. It even went so far as to prohibit websites from offering instructions on how to use a VPN to bypass these checks. This made Utah, to EFF’s knowledge, the first state in the nation to target the use of VPNs to avoid legally mandated age-verification gates. The Utah federal court halted enforcement of the law's VPN provisions last week, r uling that the law likely violates the U.S. Constitution’s prohibition on passing laws that significantly burden businesses and people outside Utah’s borders. SB 73 burdens the rights of all internet users outside of Utah because it requires adult websites to either know every visiting user’s physical location, and then block those in Utah, or to verify every visitor’s age just in case they might be in Utah. The law’s “actual-location provision in practice requires an entity to perform age verification services for every user visiting its site from any location because the entity would violate the law if even one of those users happened to be obfuscating,” the court wrote. The court essentially ruled that Utah has less-burdensome ways to prevent Utah minors from accessing adult websites than requiring all users in the world to comply with SB 73. Aylo’s lawsuit does not challenge SB 73’s provision prohibiting the websites covered by the law from sharing information about VPNs. The Legal Challenge This court order follows months of legal maneuvering. Initially set to go into effect in May 2026 , SB 73 sparked an immediate constitutional challenge from Aylo , the parent company of major online adult platforms like Pornhub. In response to the lawsuit, Utah and Aylo initially agreed that the state would pause enforcement while the court considered the preliminary injunction request or until administrative rules setting specific compliance terms were finalized. Those proposed compliance rules (R152-78B, see Utah State Bulletin, page 6 ) were published by the Utah Department of Commerce’s Division of Consumer Protection on September 1 st , and EFF submitted formal comments to the Department in opposition. According to the notice, the proposed rules could be effective as soon as October 8, 2026. However, Judge Barlow’s decision means that it cannot be enforced pending further action by the court. The Ruling EFF welcomes Judge Barlow’s ruling, which recognizes the fundamental disconnect between state legislation of the internet and how technology works. In his ruling, Judge Barlow noted that the statute requires a technical impossibility on pain of legal liability. “Aylo is correct that the statute, as amended, now essentially imposes strict liability for entities like it when it comes to determining the location of its websites’ users.” The court recognized that the problem is that SB 73 “requires entities like Aylo to geolocate its website users with perfection to avoid liability.” But, at the same time, the court acknowledged “that geolocation perfection is not presently possible.” EFF explained this technical impossibility in our comment to the Department of Commerce. VPNs protect user privacy by routing web traffic through intermediary servers. Because destination websites only see the IP address of the VPN server, they have no reliable mechanism to tell whether a connection originates from Salt Lake City, Seattle, or Shanghai. So, under Utah's current statutory framework, platforms are left with an impossible choice: completely block all VPN traffic nationwide or withdraw access from Utah entirely. Judge Barlow agreed, asserting: Because the law requires perfection in the absence of perfect geolocation tools, Aylo would need to verify those 28 million users—whether located in Salt Lake City, Boston, New Orleans, Anchorage, or Honolulu—to ensure compliance and avoid liability. The Rulemaking The administrative rules drafted by the state compelled commercial entities to implement "commercially reasonable geolocation obfuscation detection systems", which is a directive, we argue, that demands a technical impossibility. In our submission to the Utah Department of Commerce, EFF also detailed how these rules force an invasive data collection regime onto internet users everywhere. So, in response to internet users trying to avoid invasive data collection required by age-verification requirements, SB 73 requires even greater surveillance of internet users’ online activities. The Department’s suggested detection heuristics (like monitoring connection latency or device time zones) are notoriously unreliable and easily skewed by normal network conditions. This active surveillance inevitably leads to widespread misclassification, unwarranted access blocks, and severe impacts on users’ privacy far beyond Utah's borders. You can read EFF’s full comments to the Department of Commerce here . What Now? As we’ve said time and time again : the internet will always route around censorship. Mandating invasive tracking and punishing the use of essential security tools turns genuine privacy concerns into mere compliance theater and requires more state-mandated surveillance of internet users who rely on VPNs. As is the case in heavily censored regions, VPN services and obfuscation tools will simply adapt, making this framework fundamentally unsustainable. As we’ve said time and time again : the internet will always route around censorship. While Utah legislators have indicated they may attempt to revise the law during the next legislative session, the court's preliminary injunction sets an important precedent: state lawmakers should not weaponize age verification to force dragnet tracking or undermine essential security tools. As other states consider similar anti-VPN proposals, EFF will continue pushing back against these technically impossible mandates and defending users’ privacy and anonymity. Thus, we urge legislators and regulators to reject anti-privacy rules, prioritize real user security, and safeguard constitutional protections for all users. Related Issues Privacy Cyber Security Legislation Tags Utah VPN Share It Share on Mastodon Share on Bluesky Share on Facebook Copy link Related Updates Deeplinks Blog by Veridiana Alimonti | October 2, 2026 Ola Bini Ordered to Leave Ecuador Under Obscure Accusations In a new blow to Ola Bini’s legal guarantees, Ecuadorean authorities retained the free software developer and security expert yesterday in Quito and ordered his immediate deportation from the country. He is barred from returning to Ecuador for 10 years. According to information released by his lawyer, Bini... Deeplinks Blog by Thorin Klosowski | October 1, 2026 Happy Opt Out October! Let’s Find Real Alternatives to the Tech Giants Over the years, the major tech companies have found all sorts of ways to embed themselves into our lives. We often use their software, their AI tools, their social media, and their operating systems by default without even thinking about potential alternatives. It’s time to rethink that relationship. Last year,... Deeplinks Blog by Josh Richman | September 29, 2026 Privacy’s Defenders Podcast: Cowboys, Cypherpunks and Visionaries People are increasingly concerned about the ways in which mass surveillance is tracking our every move: from Flock license plate readers to face recognition to creepy ads that – based on what we see and do online – seem to know everything we’re thinking and planning. It didn’t have to... Deeplinks Blog by Devanshi Nishar | September 24, 2026 DraftKings Is Using AI to Supercharge the Harms of Online Behavioral Advertising Online sports betting company DraftKings is using AI to target customers who are most likely to place losing bets and respond to gambling promotions. This kind of targeting is a form of online behavioral advertising , which is when companies personalize the ads they show you based on the... Deeplinks Blog by Christoph Schmon | September 21, 2026 EU Kids Act Won&#039;t Keep the Internet Accountable and Trustworthy The EU Commission draft law to restrict young people’s access to the internet that it presented last week will come at a high cost: it will put online services behind age gates, expand the use of intrusive age verification, and undermine the privacy of all users. The EU ... Deeplinks Blog by Thorin Klosowski | September 18, 2026 How to Limit What Apple’s New Siri AI Can Access in iOS 27 Apple’s new operating system is here, and along with it comes a new version of Siri, dubbed with two very familiar letters: AI. As the name suggests, this Siri power-up resembles an AI chatbot more than the often derided voice assistant you might be used to. It has... Deeplinks Blog by Allison Morris | September 18, 2026 2025 Annual Report: Standing Up for an Open Digital World Technology should empower people, not control them. In 2025, that core belief faced unprecedented challenges. But with the support of our members, donors, partners, and communities, we fought back and made meaningful progress. Today, we’re proud to share our 2025 Annual Report , highlighting the people, cases, campaigns, and advocacy... Deeplinks Blog by Karen Gullo , Adam Schwartz | September 9, 2026 Cops Play Hide and Seek About Using Spy Tech to Avoid Scrutiny and Bad PR Law enforcement agencies across the country are increasingly relying on spying technologies— automated license plate readers (ALPR), cell-site simulators , and facial recognition , to name a few--causing an outcry in many communities where people are rightly concerned about the threat to civil rights and civil liberties these tools present.Some... Deeplinks Blog by Jillian C. York , Eva Galperin | September 9, 2026 Digital Sovereignty: What It Is, What It Could Be The term “digital sovereignty” has become ubiquitous. European officials invoke it in debates about cloud infrastructure, AI , semiconductors , and platform regulation. Governments throughout the global majority use it to argue for greater control over data and communications infrastructure and boost their economies. Companies market “ sovereign cloud ”... Deeplinks Blog by David Greene | September 1, 2026 Meta&#039;s $17 Billion Settlement is a Bad Deal for Teens and All Social Media Users Meta’s settlement with 52 state attorneys general is a bad deal for all internet users, and especially for teens. In this post, we go through the Settlement’s provisions in detail. Share on Mastodon Share on Bluesky Share on Facebook Related Issues Privacy Cyber Security Legislation Related Tags Utah VPN Back to top Follow EFF: mastodon facebook instagram Blue Sky youtube flicker linkedin tiktok threads Check out our 4-star rating on Charity Navigator . Contact General Legal Security Membership Press About Calendar Volunteer Victories History Internships Jobs Staff Diversity &amp; Inclusion Issues Free Speech Privacy Creativity &amp; Innovation Transparency International Security Updates Blog Press Releases Events Legal Cases Whitepapers EFFector Newsletter Press Press Contact Donate Join or Renew Membership Online One-Time Donation Online Giving Societies Corporate Giving and Sponsorship Shop Other Ways to Give Copyright (CC BY) Trademark Privacy Policy Thanks JavaScript license information