Toyota is taking its best-selling Corolla electric Skip to main content Toggle main menu Electrek Logo Go to the Electrek home page Switch site 9to5Mac Logo 9to5Mac 9to5Google Logo 9to5Google 9to5Toys Drone DJ Logo DroneDJ Space Explored About Privacy Toggle social menu Toggle dark mode Search for: Submit Toggle search form Electrek Forums Autos Electric Vehicle Price Guide – best prices for dealers in the US Tesla Ford GM BMW Jaguar VW Daimler/Mercedes Hyundai Nissan Toyota Alt. Transport Ebikes Electric Motorcycles Bus Hyperloop Autonomy Tesla Autopilot Cruise Automation Uber Waymo Energy Green Energy Climate Tesla Shop Store Toggle dark mode Toyota Toyota Corolla Toyota is finally taking its best-seller electric Peter Johnson &nbsp;|&nbsp;Sep 23 2026 - 9:05 am PT 100 Comments Toyota is preparing to introduce the electric version of its best-selling car of all time, the Corolla. When is Toyota launching the electric Corolla? With over 57 million sold worldwide since it went on sale in 1966, the Toyota Corolla is widely considered the best-selling vehicle to date. The Corolla has undergone 12 model changes, but the upcoming version will look (and feel) very different from its predecessors. Toyota offered a sneak peek of the new Corolla in concept form almost a year ago at the Japan Mobility Show. Advertisement - scroll for more content “How should the Corolla evolve?” Toyota CEO Koji Sato asked those in attendance. The Japanese automaker is planning a drastic overhaul, including a sleek new design, high-tech interior, and updated platform. Although it’s expected to use the same TNGA-C architecture as the current Corolla, Toyota is expected to introduce a heavily modified version of the platform that supports all powertrains, including pure electric. Toyota CEO Koji Sato reveals the Corolla Concept at the Japan Mobility Show (Source: Toyota) “Whether it’s a battery EV, plug-in hybrid, hybrid, or internal combustion engine vehicle―whatever the power source―let’s make good-looking cars that everyone will want to drive!” Toyota’s CEO said at the Japan Mobility Show. Toyota’s current chairman and former CEO, Akio Toyoda, warned in an exclusive interview with Japanese media NHK in July that the company is being forced to adapt, or “it cannot survive,” amid new competition and technology from China. The special broadcast went behind the scenes at the “top secret” next-gen Corolla development site. Toyota Corolla Concept (Source: Toyota) We even caught a glimpse of several different Corolla Concept body types, including a sedan, hatchback, crossover, and GR model in the background. While Toyota has kept most details secret so far, the next-gen Corolla is expected to come in several powertrains, including gas, hybrid, plug-in hybrid, and battery electric. The interior of the Toyota Corolla EV concept (Source: Toyota) Toyota engineers told Car and Driver that the hybrid will use a new 1.5-liter four-cylinder engine with an electric motor, delivering about 134 horsepower combined. The hybrid system will be roughly 10% to 20% more efficient than the current setup, and an AWD version is possible. The interior of the Toyota Corolla EV concept (Source: Toyota) Top comment by Damon Ekstrom Liked by 33 people I really wish Honda would have done this for the Civic, but considering how they're handling electric vehicles these days, I'm glad they didn't. Honda is now the only major car maker not investing in electrification for North America, and they're definitely going to regret that, especially considering how expensive gas and diesel now is. View all comments Toyota will also introduce the first plug-in hybrid and pure electric Corolla models. The PHEV will use a larger battery, offering a longer electric driving range, but Toyota has yet to reveal specifics. The Toyota Corolla EV is expected to be available in single- and dual-motor configurations with a driving range of at least 250 miles. Toyota Corolla Concept (Source: Toyota) Whether or not Toyota will bring the Corolla EV to the US is still up in the air. Toyota’s next-gen Corolla is expected to make its debut sometime in 2027 as a 2028 model year. We will learn prices closer to launch, but according to Car and Driver , the gas version will likely start at around $25,000, the hybrid around $27,000, and the EV and PHEVs will likely be priced in the $30,000 range. FTC: We use income earning auto affiliate links. More. Stay up to date with the latest content by subscribing to Electrek on Google News . You’re reading Electrek— experts who break news about Tesla , electric vehicles, and green energy , day after day. Be sure to check out our homepage for all the latest news, and follow Electrek on Twitter , Facebook , and LinkedIn to stay in the loop. Don’t know where to start? Check out our YouTube channel for the latest reviews. Featured from Electrek Electrek Logo Tesla &#8216;FSD&#8217; sped in 55% of Brussels 30 km/h zones ahead of EU vote Fred Lambert Sep 24 2026 Waymo says it has stopped 841 injuries in 271 million autonomous miles Jameson Dow Sep 24 2026 Thinking about buying a second car? Here’s a $1,000 alternative Micah Toll Sep 24 2026 Mercedes-Benz gets first dibs on ProLogium&#8217;s Gen4 solid-state EV battery cells Peter Johnson Sep 24 2026 Advertisement - scroll for more content Podcast Subscribe to Electrek on YouTube for exclusive videos and subscribe to the podcast . Comments Expand Close comments Expand Close comments Guides Toyota Toyota Corolla Author Peter Johnson EVPeteJohnson Peter Johnson is covering the auto industry&#8217;s step-by-step transformation to electric vehicles. He is an experienced investor, financial writer, and EV enthusiast. His enthusiasm for electric vehicles, primarily Tesla, is a significant reason he pursued a career in investments. If he isn&#8217;t telling you about his latest 10K findings, you can find him enjoying the outdoors or exercising