Dwarf Fortress is getting the mother of all magic updates, extending to &#34;the fundamental cosmological makeup of the universe&#34; | Rock Paper Shotgun Skip to main content Mortal Shell 2 walkthrough All Elden Ring bosses Best Minecraft seeds 26.1 Hollow Knight Silksong walkthrough Past Wordle answers Bank Holiday Mawnday Rock Paper Shotgun Latest News Reviews Hardware Features Videos Guides Bestest Bests Free games Discord Deals Podcasts RSS Supporters Go Get our newsletter Support us Sign in / Create account If you click on a link and make a purchase we may receive a small commission. Read our editorial policy . Home News Dwarf Fortress is getting the mother of all magic updates, extending to &#34;the fundamental cosmological makeup of the universe&#34; &#34;Pursue magical research that really feels like discovery&#34; Image credit: Kitfox / Rock Paper Shotgun News by Edwin Evans-Thirlwell News Editor Published on Aug. 27, 2026, 4:20 p.m. 5 comments Infamously simulation-heavy colony builder Dwarf Fortress is getting a Myth and Magic update that, at the possible risk of being maybe a touch hyperbolic, threatens to make all other fantasy game spellcraft look like a sleepy bout of Got Your Nose. It's summarised by Bay12 co-founder Tarn Adams as a set of procedural systems "that go beyond combining spell effects... straight to the fundamental cosmological makeup of the universe", allowing for "magical situations that you cannot get any other way." So many dwarves are going to die, aren't they, Tarn? And in such exotic and unexpected ways. Here's a brief video announcing the update, which is coming later this year. Dwarf Fortress Myth and Magic Update Preview - Official Trailer Watch on YouTube If I'm reading the tea leaves correctly, the update will generate a variety of approaches to sorcery in the course of regular world generation. Distinct species of wizardry and witchcraft will arise with tectonic abandon in the course of laying down rivers and mountains, and charting the fates of creatures, populations and settlements. It certainly sounds like a big bounce beyond the existing relatively threadbare magic system . As Adams goes on, this will allow "your fortresses to pursue magical research that really feels like discovery", encompassing "magic materials, enchantments, rituals, and ruins" together with spells that just "blow things up". You can see a few examples in the video, including a goblin-shredding hex that doubles as a means of shifting stone. All of it tied into "how that particular universe works down to its bones", Adams promises. They've been working on the feature for many years. I probably don't need to remind you Rock Paper Magma Shotgunners that Dwarf Fortress is pretty intense and elaborate even without any procgen thaumaturgy. If you do need reminding, here's Nate's old Basement of Curiosity series . Please bear in mind that the first entry was written in 2019, long before the launch of the Steam edition with its more approachable artstyle &ndash; the game has grown horrifyingly since then. In 2023, Sin also had thoughts on why none of Dwarf Fortress's many imitators or fellow travellers have managed to eclipse it. Edwin Evans-Thirlwell : Clapped-out Soul Reaver enthusiast with dubious academic backstory who obsesses over dropped diary pages in horror games. Games journalist since 2008. From Yorkshire originally but sounds like he's from Rivendell. View comments (5) Rock Paper Shotgun is better when you sign in Sign in and join us on our journey to discover strange and compelling PC games. Sign in with Google Sign in with Facebook Sign in with Twitter Sign in with Reddit Sign in with email &copy; 2026 Rock Paper Shotgun, an IGN Entertainment, Inc. brand. 60 Whitechapel High Street, London, E1 7PE, United Kingdom. All rights reserved. No part of this website or its content may be reproduced without the copyright owner's permission. Rock Paper Shotgun is a registered trademark of Gamer Network Limited, an affiliate of IGN Entertainment, Inc. Theme Auto Light Dark Helpful links About Us Advertise with us Archive Authors Contact Us Corporate Site Interactive Maps Newsletters RSS Feeds Policies Accessibility Policy Code of Conduct Cookie Policy Do Not Sell My Personal Information Editorial Policy Privacy Policy Review Policy Terms &amp; Conditions Withdraw consent &amp; manage privacy preferences IGN Entertainment Dicebreaker Eurogamer GamesIndustry.biz HowLongToBeat Humble Bundle IGN MapGenie Maxroll Nintendo Life Planet Pokémon Pure Xbox Push Square Time Extension VG247 Find us on social media BlueSky Discord Facebook Instagram LinkedIn TikTok Twitch X (Twitter) YouTube