Tencent Releases and Open-Sources Tencent Hy4 preview - Tencent Skip to main content Who we are Who we are Overview See how teamwork, leadership and global reach bring Tencent's vision and values to life. Our story Our management team Our vision &#038; mission Back Who we are Who we are Overview See how teamwork, leadership and global reach bring Tencent's vision and values to life. Our story Our management team Our vision &#038; mission Back What we create What we create Overview Discover the full range of products and services Tencent offers to consumers and businesses now, and what we’re planning for the future. For consumers For consumers Overview Weixin/WeChat Tencent Games Back For business For business Overview Tencent Cloud Marketing Solutions Back For the future Everything we create Back What we create What we create Overview Discover the full range of products and services Tencent offers to consumers and businesses now, and what we’re planning for the future. For consumers Weixin/WeChat Tencent Games For business Tencent Cloud Marketing Solutions For the future Everything we create Back Our actions Our actions Overview Tencent leverages technology to promote environmental sustainability, address social concerns, and support transparent corporate governance. Environmental Social Governance Reports Back Our actions Our actions Overview Tencent leverages technology to promote environmental sustainability, address social concerns, and support transparent corporate governance. Environmental Social Governance Reports Back Investors Investors Overview Creating long-term value for investors with an open and pragmatic approach. Results &#038; announcements Results & announcements Results Investor news Financial reports Announcements Back Investor kit &#038; calendar Equity &#038; bond information Shareholder information Our actions Our actions Overview Environmental Social Governance Reports Back Back Investors Investors Overview Creating long-term value for investors with an open and pragmatic approach. Results &#038; announcements Results Investor news Financial reports Announcements Investor kit &#038; calendar Equity &#038; bond information Shareholder information Our actions Environmental Social Governance Reports Back Newsroom Newsroom Overview Stay up to date on all the latest news and events from Tencent. All news Media resources Events news Back Newsroom Newsroom Overview Stay up to date on all the latest news and events from Tencent. All news Media resources Events news Back Careers 简 EN 繁 Close Featured Corporate Innovation Tencent Releases and Open-Sources Tencent Hy4 preview August 28, 2026 Ranked among the top tier of open-source models, Hy4 preview is built for real-world productivity tasks, delivering outstanding performance across coding, office work, and scientific research Tencent has released and open-sourced Tencent Hy4 preview, a next-generation large language model with 770B total parameters and 49B active parameters, and a context window exceeding 1M tokens. It demonstrates outstanding capabilities on real-world productivity tasks spanning coding, office work, and scientific research. Hy4 preview is now available as an open-source model and can also be accessed globally through WorkBuddy and CodeBuddy, as well as Yuanbao, ima and other Tencent products. Users can try the model directly through these applications, or connect to it via API through Tencent Cloud TokenHub and OpenRouter. Upon launch, Hy4 preview will be available for free on WorkBuddy and CodeBuddy for two weeks. Free access to Hy3 on both platforms has also been extended until September 30. Hy4 preview was expanded significantly in model size, context length, and data volume, and&nbsp; the advances in both pre-training and post-training have led to a major leap in overall intelligence, placing the model among the top tier of open-source models. Hunyuan continuously works in deep co-design with products such as CodeBuddy and WorkBuddy, optimizing the real-world user experience across productivity scenarios. In a blind evaluation conducted internally by Tencent involving 163 experts and 203 engineering tasks, Hy4 preview scored an average of 2.99 out of 4.00, slightly ahead of GLM-5.3 (2.92/4.00) and Kimi K3 (2.94/4.00). Designed for productivity, Hy4 preview was developed using high-quality training data co-created with Tencent experts across software engineering, gaming, finance, security, and other domains, as well as through deep co-design with products such as WorkBuddy. This has helped drive significant improvements across a wide range of real-world productivity tasks. In software engineering, Hy4 preview delivers stronger understanding, planning, debugging, and validation capabilities for long-context development tasks, while also enhancing the visual quality and interaction experience of front-end development. In office productivity and analytical scenarios, the model demonstrates a significantly stronger understanding of complex working environments and enhanced financial analysis capabilities. It has also been optimized for data analysis and cross-document collaboration, supporting the full workflow from information processing through to the creation of documents, spreadsheets, and presentations. In game development, Hy4 preview can generate a playable prototype from a single natural-language request, and work effectively with game engines. Developers can then continue refining complex game projects through multi-turn interactions. In scientific research, Hy4 preview demonstrates stronger capabilities in understanding, reasoning through and solving complex research problems, with notable improvements across areas including AI research and development, molecular dynamics simulation, condensed-matter physics and fundamental mathematics. Notably, Hy4 preview also contributed to its own development process, participating for the first time in the automated optimization of training methods, data strategies, evaluation frameworks, and low-level operators. The model proposed approaches, ran experiments, and iterated based on the results, with the resulting code, logs, and feedback feeding into subsequent rounds of exploration. This established an early-stage recursive self-improvement loop. Hy4 preview has also autonomously analyzed bottlenecks in its inference system&nbsp; and carried out multiple rounds of optimization on areas such as operator fusion and communication optimization. These improvements increased end-to-end throughput by 31.8% compared with the baseline, with consistent gains across different context lengths and concurrency levels. This demonstrates the model&#8217;s ability to autonomously optimize its own inference infrastructure. Hy4 preview continues to offer cost efficiency, helping make advanced AI more widely accessible. API pricing is set at USD 0.834 per million input tokens, USD 2.501 per million output tokens and USD 0.042 per million tokens for cache hits. Through a preview-first approach, followed by official releases, Hunyuan continuously incorporates real-world feedback into its research and development process, enabling its models to improve by solving real-world problems. The next batch of models in the Hy4 series is expected to roll out soon. Share this Related news See all Corporate Innovation Tencent Breaks into 2026 Fortune Global 500 Top 100 July 30, 2026 Corporate For consumers +2 more Tencent Brings Together AI and Games to Help Preserve and Share Cultural Heritage of New UNESCO Site in Jingdezhen July 25, 2026 Featured Corporate +1 more Tencent Unveils Full-Stack Embodied Intelligence Solution; ADP 4.0 Launches Globally at WAIC 2026 July 20, 2026 Featured Corporate +2 more Tencent Hunyuan Officially Releases Hy3, Advancing Agent Capabilities and Deeper Product Integration July 6, 2026 Home » Tencent Releases and Open-Sources Tencent Hy4 preview Who we are Our story Our management team Our vision and mission What we create For consumers For business For the future Everything we create Our actions Environmental Social Governance Reports Investors Results Investor news Financial reports Announcements Investor kit &#038; calendar Equity &#038; bond information Shareholder information Newsroom All news Media resources Events Careers Contact Global --> 简 EN 繁 Copyright © 2026 Tencent. All Rights Reserved. Service agreement Cookie policy Privacy policy Intellectual property rights Legal statement Integrity policy Site map 粤网文[2023]2882-203号 粤B2-20090059-1 粤公网安备 44030502008569号 营业执照 您的Cookies偏好 欢迎来到Tencent.com！我们希望使用分析型Cookies和类似技术 (“Cookies”) 来改善我们的网站。Cookies收集的信息不会识别您个人。有关我们使用的Cookies的类型以及您的偏好选项（包括如何更改您的偏好设置）的更多信息，请查看此处的 Cookies政策 。 接受所有分析型Cookies 拒绝所有分析型Cookies 您的Cookies偏好 歡迎來到Tencent.com！我們希望使用分析型Cookies和類似技術 (“Cookies”) 來改善我們的網站。Cookies收集的信息不會識別您個人。有關我們使用的Cookies的類型以及您的偏好選項（包括如何更改您的偏好設置）的更多信息，請查看此處的 Cookies政策 。 接受所有分析型Cookies 拒絕所有分析型Cookies Your cookie preferences Welcome to Tencent.com! We would like to use analytics cookies and other similar tracking technologies (“Cookies”) to help us improve our website. The Cookies collect information in a way that does not directly identify anyone. For more information about the Cookies we use and your options (including how to change your preferences), see our cookies policy here . Accept all analytics cookies Reject all analytics cookies