GPT-6 Astra, Looped Transformers, and Hidden Reasoning Subscribe Sign in GPT-6 Astra, Looped Transformers, and Hidden Reasoning A Look at Recurrent Depth, Hidden Chains of Thought, and Recent Research on Looping Transformer Blocks Sebastian Raschka, PhD Sep 09, 2026 223 29 24 Share A lot has happened in the last few weeks. I am sure that OpenAI’s GPT-6 Astra is top of mind for everyone right now. In particular, thoughts on its performance, the looped transformer/recurrent depth aspects, and rumors that Astra is “hiding” its reasoning trace (i.e., chain of thought). So, in this article, I want to start with some brief impressions of Astra and some thoughts on where all this is headed. Then, I will discuss, in detail, what “looped transformers” are, and how (or rather, if) this relates to hiding chains of thought. Lastly, after covering the basics of the looped transformer, I wanted to highlight some new insights from recent research papers on the topic. 1. GPT-6 Astra impressions First things first. Before getting into the architecture rumors and related research literature, let me briefly summarize some GPT-6 Astra observations and tidbits. Last week, OpenAI’s new GPT-6 Astra was released with a big fanfare. I used it over the past couple of days, and it’s an exceptionally good model, likely the best I’ve used as of this writing. But what, exactly, has it improved, and how? 1.1 Astra benchmarks Astra is the best model I’ve used so far, and it’s disproportionately good at 3D rendering and animation tasks (relative to other models). With that, I mean that while it leapfrogs its GPT-5.6 predecessor in practically all categories (writing, math, coding, and more), it especially does so when it comes to graphical demos. We can see this also reflected in the benchmarks. For instance, GPT-6 Astra is really good at math and coding, as shown below. Figure 1: Selection of three popular coding benchmarks and one challenging math benchmark. More benchmarks are shared on the Astra release blog: https://openai.com/index/gpt-6-astra/ One of the highlights (not shown in the figure) is that Astra also achieves 99.9% on the ARC-AGI-3 benchmark (GPT-5.6 Sol only 7.8%), which measures a mix of solving logic puzzles and generalization. However, the math, coding, and computer use benchmarks are more interesting because they are closer to real-world use. Coming back to the Artificial Analysis Coding Agent Index v1.4 (lower right in the previous figure), which blends several agentic coding tasks, GPT-6 Astra is clearly at the frontier, but it doesn’t pull ahead by leaps and bounds. This can also be seen in the general Artificial Analysis Intelligence Index shown below, which blends different types of tasks, not just coding tasks. Figure 2: Artificial Analysis Intelligence Index via https://artificialanalysis.ai/#intelligence Now, the big advantage of Artificial Analysis benchmarks is that they are independent and thus may be a bit more trustworthy than self-evaluated benchmarks by model developers. The harness setup depends on the benchmark . For example, GDPval-AA and AA-Briefcase use their open-source, minimal Stirrup harness across the different LLMs they compare. In the Intelligence Index v4.2 shown above, Terminal-Bench v2.1 uses Terminus 2, and τ³-Banking uses the τ-Bench harness. The separate Coding Agent Index also compares different coding-agent harnesses. For evaluations that use a shared harness, this makes it more of an apples-to-apples comparison. At the same time, during model training, models are typically developed with one primary harness in mind (and fine-tuned less on other harnesses). Plus, the primary harness is often developed to suit and amplify a model’s strengths. So, some of the agentic evaluations might underestimate how well Astra performs in its primary harness. How much this affects its Intelligence Index score would need to be tested by comparing Astra across harnesses on the same tasks. As a side note, as a colleague recently suggested to me (as also recommended by the Claude Code lead), it’s maybe not a bad idea to delete (/archive) some of your existing AGENTS.md contents and SKILL.md files, as newer LLMs have become more efficient at understanding the prompt and solving the problem at hand. The extra hand-holding could unnecessarily constrain newer models and lead to worse solutions. Of course, I am not suggesting never using SKILL.md files again, but for some workflows, because they can improve efficiency upon reuse, since the model doesn’t have to rediscover them. But what I am suggesting is that some workflows don’t need describing, and “old” descriptions may no longer be ideal, and the LLM may be able to come up with better solutions. So, it’s perhaps time to update or regenerate said instruction files. 1.2 Computer use capabilities GPT-6 Astra seems to be exceptionally strong in image and rendering tasks. When these tasks involve interacting with graphical user interfaces, they also demonstrate computer-use capabilities, meaning the model operates software on your local computer through the Codex/ChatGPT app. Computer use is where the model really shines compared to others, and anything graphic-related also makes for interesting and intuitive demos on social media platforms. There are tons of examples of impressive demos out there, from modeling rendering New York City in blender to virtual open house tours . To pick one example, below is a comparison where I had GPT-6 Astra Medium and High redraw a picture of me in a browser version of MS Paint using the mouse on my computer (not Extra High and Max, because I didn’t want to waste all my tokens :)). This highlights not only the model’s artistic capabilities but, more importantly, its ability to use tools on one’s computer (in this case, Paint; you can see the model using the interface via the mouse cursor). This is not the first model that, inside a harness, is capable of general computer use. For example, I successfully used GPT models for some UI tasks (e.g., expense-related tasks in Excel) and so on since earlier this year. However, computer use is a relatively new capability, enabled by the harness, and usually feels not quite as mature yet. This makes sense. LLMs are text models, so naturally the lower-hanging fruit is writing and coding and using APIs and CLIs. At the same time, there are many tools and software that don’t expose CLIs (yet), and instead of waiting until someone designs that interface, why not improve models to use graphical user interfaces (and, as mentioned before, this makes for pretty and impressive demos, anyway)? This is somewhat analogous to the emerging humanoid robot developments. Sure, humanoid robots are not the most efficient robots, for example, at the assembly line, where special-purpose machines exist. But they are versatile. So, I expect the upcoming months (or years) also to be an era of computer use refinement on both the LLM and the agent harness layer. I.e., in addition to the current capabilities, and expanding their math and coding capabilities, models will be trained with an increasing amount of computer use in mind. And this will also make LLMs more accessible for everyday computer tasks outside the tech world (”Hey ChatGPT, please do my tax return” :)) 1.3 Computer use training The computer usage trend is also consistent with the recent reporting that OpenAI purchased tens of thousands of Mac Minis and Mac Studios for Reinforcement Learning. So, here the Macs are not used to literally train the models (it’s better to use GPUs for that) but rather to expose macOS during the model training for the model to learn to use said operating system and the tools therein. So, how does computer-use training on said Macs work? In short, the Macs (or their macOS operating system, to be precise) serve as an environment that the model can interact with during training. The basic workflow looks like this: Prompt the model by giving it a task, such as “open an app xyz and do abc”. Provide it with screenshots of the macOS interface (this is usually done by the harness). The LLM then predicts mouse/keyboard actions (click, key presses, scrolling, and so on). Execute those actions on the Mac (again, this is done by the harness). Feed new screenshots of the updated environment after performing the actions in the previous step. Repeat steps 2-5 until the task succeeds or fails. Use success/failure signals and verifiers (or graders) as training feedback, including reinforcement learning during post-training; this is analogous to regular Reinforcement Learning with Verifiable Rewards (RLVR). Figure 3: Overview of a computer-use training workflow. Again, the Mac is mostly the environment here and not the machine for running or updating the model during training. The model likely sits on NVIDIA GPUs and is fed via API to said Mac. By the way, NVIDIA’s CEO mentioned that GPT-6 Astra was being trained on ~100,000 Grace Blackwell GPUs. 1.4 GPT-6 Astra is still a reasoning model The focus on computer-use training discussed in the previous section is not a fundamental paradigm shift in the training pipeline. GPT-6 Astra (and likely any LLM in the foreseeable future) is still a reasoning model. This means the LLM is trained with reinforcement learning with verifiable rewards (RLVR) and produces intermediate reasoning traces (chains of thought) But I will discuss the reasoning model aspects of GPT-6 Astra (especially regarding hiding chains of thought) a bit later in this article. 2. Looped transformers That being said, about two days before the official model, the news magazine The Information published an article reporting that, according to some inside information, Astra is using a concept called “recurrent depth” or “looped transformers.” Figure 4: Quote from The Information (Source: https://www.theinformation.com/articles/secret-technique-behind-openais-astra-model-sparks-security-concerns ) Since LLM architectures are within my area of expertise and my passion, I created a short lecture video explaining the general looped transformer mechanism and addressing the comment about hidden reasoning chains, which you can find below. In the following subsections, I’ll first explain what looped transformers are, and I’ll revisit the comment about the hidden chains of thought later in this article. (The looped transformer explanation may seem a bit long, but I really think that it helps with establishing a foundational understanding of the technique, which is then useful to judging the claim that it obscures the reasoning traces or chains of thought.) 2.1 Reusing transformer blocks So, what’s a looped transformer? A Looped Transformer is essentially an architectural tweak, with the main idea being to pass the intermediate representations through the same transformer blocks multiple times (instead of just once). Compared to just adding more blocks, the “trick” here is that the weights stay the same across these passes. Definitions &amp; Jargon Throughout this article, I’ll use the following terms: A transformer block is a unit containing attention, a feedforward module, normalization, and shortcut connections. These blocks are often called “transformer layers” in papers. A stack is a sequence of transformer blocks. A block application means running an input through a transformer block once. The looped transformer is nothing new, and the basic idea already appeared in the Universal Transformers paper from 2018. But before discussing Universal Transformer, let’s start with a simpler example, Nanbeige4.2-3B , a recent open-weight LLM that came out in July and that I covered on Substack Notes and in my LLM Architecture Gallery earlier this summer. The Nanbeige architecture, shown below, essentially looks like a regular transformer. However, notice that it has an extra (orange) arrow looping back to the beginning of the transformer stack. Figure 5. Nanbeige4.2-3B applies the same stack of 22 transformer blocks twice. The orange arrow shows where the intermediate representations are passed back into the stack. Let’s walk through this from the bottom up. First, as in any other transformer-based LLM, the input text is tokenized and converted into embedding vectors. These vectors then pass through 22 transformer blocks, and each of these 22 blocks has its own weights. However, the looping transformer aspect here is that after the first pass, the hidden states are fed back through the same 22 blocks. So, block 1 is applied again, followed by block 2, and so on up to block 22. If we were to unroll this computation, we would have 44 transformer block applications. However, compared to a conventional transformer with 44 distinct blocks, the second stack of 22 block applications reuses the weights from the first stack. For example, block application 23 uses the weights of block 1, block application 24 uses the weights of block 2, and so on. Figure 6. Nanbeige4.2-3B unrolled into two passes through the same 22 transformer blocks, giving 44 block applications. So, the whole idea here is that we increase the effective depth from 22 to 44 block applications without adding another set of transformer weights. By the way, why 2 rounds, not 3, 4, or more? There are not many details in the Nanbeige paper, but they say that this was essentially the most efficient setup. Increasing the loops from 2 to 3 can increase modeling performance, but the extra computational cost wasn’t worth it. 2.2 Looping costs So, why would we do this looping in general? This is essentially an alternative to just making the model bigger by adding more transformer blocks. So, for instance, a model that uses 22 transformer blocks twice has roughly half as many (transformer-block) parameters compared to a model with 44 conventional blocks. This then reduces the memory needed to store the weights. As a side note, note that the embedding and output layers, which are usually large and make up a substantial portion of the total, are separate from this comparison. (In the case of Nanbeige 4.2 3B, the embedding and output layers make up ~25% of the total 3B parameters; with weight sharing between those two, we could reduce that to 12.5%.) Figure 7: Side-by-side comparison showing how many parameters would be required in traditional versus looping scenarios. Of course, reusing the same blocks in a loop still requires computation. More precisely, we pass the intermediate inputs through 44 block applications during the forward pass. And, during training, gradients flow backward through both repetitions of the shared stack. So, compared to using the 22 blocks only once, this adds substantial work. Actually, it’s similarly expensive as having 44 distinct blocks (except the optimizer has fewer distinct parameters to update; backprop still runs through all 44 block applications). There is also the KV cache, which stores the attention keys and values of previous tokens for reuse in conventional and looped transformers in each next-token generation step. By the way, I have a standalone article on KV caching here if useful: Understanding and Coding the KV Cache in LLMs from Scratch Sebastian Raschka, PhD · June 17, 2025 KV caches are one of the most critical techniques for efficient inference in LLMs in production. KV caches are an important component for compute-efficient LLM inference in production. This article explains how they work conceptually and in code with a from-scratch, human-readable implementation. Read full story But back to the topic. Even though there is weight-sharing in looped transformers, the intermediate states that enter a block are different on the second pass. Consequently, in KV caching, the resulting keys and values are also different between these two transformer stacks (just like in the no-looping case). So, there are no KV cache-related savings either. To make this more concrete, for example, consider block applications 1 and 23, which both use block 1 in the looped transformer setup. But each application still needs its own KV cache entries. So, since we have to keep separate caches for both passes, the repeated stack of 22 blocks has the same KV cache requirements as a conventional transformer with 44 distinct blocks. Interestingly, the Nanbeige researchers reported in the paper that they tried sharing the KV cache between passes. This, of course, halved the KV cache size, but the model performed worse than the version with separate caches (which is the version they released). Just to complete the Nanbeige discussion before moving on and looking at some other looped transformer designs, their technical report also discusses two other choices or trade-offs. Training the looped architecture from scratch worked better than converting an already pre-trained transformer through upcycling. And two passes gave their preferred trade-off, as mentioned in the previous section. More passes brought only small additional gains while slowing training and making optimization less stable. So, the number of passes is another architectural choice we have to make. As mentioned before, in Nanbeige, this is fixed at two. But we can also make it depend on the token, as we will see next. 2.3 Universal Transformers and flexible loop counts Now, let’s come back to Universal Transformers . In Nanbeige, we apply a stack of 22 transformer blocks twice. In the Universal Transformer paper from 2018, we repeatedly apply the same transformer block instead of repeating a stack of transformer blocks. The main idea is similar, though. Also, the number of steps can be fixed, but the paper also explores adaptive halting. For example, a token at a particular position may only go through one or two loops. Another may go through three or four loops, and so on. This gives the model flexibility to allocate the compute to those tokens that benefit from extra computation. How is the looping number decided? Here, the model uses a small, trained function that outputs a so-called halting probability for each position at each step. It adds up these probabilities over these successive loops and then stops looping at a given position once the sum exceeds a threshold value. In addition, a maximum loop count also limits the computation just in case. Figure 8: Adaptive halting in a Universal Transformer. Another example of a looped transformer is ByteDance’s Ouro , which I also covered in my LLM Architecture Gallery . For instance, Ouro-Thinking 2.6B applies the same stack of 48 transformer blocks four times. That’s 192 block applications while storing weights for 48 distinct blocks. Basically, that’s a more extreme case than Nanbeige. Additionally, a learned exit gate assigns probabilities to the different exits, and a threshold on the cumulative probability determines which pass supplies the output. So, it’s also borrowing the adaptive halting idea from Universal Transformer, which Nanbeige didn’t use. (However, there is a practical caveat here. The released Hugging Face implementation computes all configured passes before selecting an output, so it seems like the number of loops is effectively hard-coded to 4). 2.4 Routing flexible loop counts Another approach is Mixture-of-Recursions , a paper from 2025 that is essentially a more sophisticated version of the Universal Transformer discussed earlier. Similar to the Universal Transformer, individual tokens pass the transformer blocks one or more times as illustrated in the figure below. However, the innovation is how this looping number is determined on a per-token basis. In the following figure from the paper, the looped (repeated) stack is called a recursion block here. This contains several transformer blocks, and it sits between separate first and last transformer blocks (labeled Layer 0 and Layer L-1). Figure 9. Mixture-of-Recursions applies a shared stack a different number of times at different token positions. The highlighted text shows an example with 1, 2, or 3 pass