iPhone Duo - Apple Apple Store Mac iPad iPhone Watch Vision AirPods TV &amp; Home Entertainment Accessories Support 0 + iPhone Duo Explore View pricing iPhone Duo Currently viewing iPhone 18 Pro New iPhone Air iPhone 17 iPhone 17e iPhone 16 Compare Accessories Shop iPhone iOS 27 iPhone Duo * View pricing Overview Highlights Design Cameras Performance Shared Features Accessories Tech Specs Switch from Android iPhone Duo Hello, hello. Pre-order starting 5:00 a.m. PT on October sixteenth. Available starting October twenty-third Pre-order starting 5:00 a.m. PT on 10.16 Available starting 10.23 * ◊ View pricing Get the highlights. Watch the film Display iOS Titanium frame 48MP Dual Fusion camera A20 Pro chip Battery Siri AI The largest iPhone display ever. In a thin, foldable design. More ways to iPhone. Reimagined iOS experiences for ultimate versatility. Titanium frame and hinge cover. Beautiful and durable. 48MP Dual Fusion camera system. And all&#x2011;new ways to shoot from front to back. Vapor&#x2011;cooled A20 Pro chip for pro performance. Dual-battery system. 1 All&#x2011;day power. Meet Siri AI. Your AI assistant. More personal. More powerful. Siri AI is rolling out in English. 2 Foldable design A new iPhone enters the fold. Introducing iPhone Duo, the first foldable iPhone. When open, it’s the thinnest iPhone with the largest display ever — 50 percent larger than iPhone 18 Pro Max . And it has an outer display with more than 90 percent of the screen area of iPhone 18 Pro. Through reimagined iOS experiences, it offers unparalleled versatility in all-new poses and orientations. All in a durable, pocketable design. It’s an iPhone unlike any iPhone. Switch from Android to iPhone Duo A new iPhone enters the fold. Introducing iPhone Duo, the first foldable iPhone. When open, the dual display system features the largest, thinnest iPhone display ever . Through reimagined iOS experiences, it offers unparalleled versatility in all-new poses and orientations. All in a pocketable design. Because it’s an iPhone, it holds its value longer than other smartphones. And switching from Android is easy. Night Sky Star White Night Sky Star White Take a closer look. View in your space Foldable design Foldable design. Offers exceptional viewing experiences in a design that fits in your pocket. Drag below to open and close Landscape Landscape. A spacious display for incredibly immersive entertainment. You can even use two apps side by side with Split View multitasking. Portrait Portrait. Type comfortably on a wider keyboard. Enjoy more room to browse and scroll. Pin a video to the top and watch it while using another app. Closed Closed. Compact and comfortable to hold. With essential controls moved to the side, they’re easy to reach. And you get more vertical space for apps. Seated Seated. Set iPhone Duo down and watch a show or follow a workout at the perfect viewing angle — with easy access to the controls on the bottom. Standing Standing. Display a bedside clock, photos, widgets, and more with StandBy. And watch movies and shows at an adjustable angle on the outer display. Durability Durability. Grade 5 titanium frame and hinge cover. Scratch-resistant coating on the inner display. Ceramic Shield, front and back. IP68 water and dust resistant. 3 Expansive display Think vast. iPhone Duo offers the most immersive viewing experience of any iPhone. The aspect ratio of the 7.6&#x2011;inch Super Retina XDR display 4 is consistent across the inner and outer display. The inner display is made of 10 ultrathin layers with a custom nano&#x2011;texture finish that reduces glare. And the under&#x2011;display FaceTime camera is hidden until you need it. The result is an uninterrupted viewing surface that’s remarkably smooth and flat. It’s simply the best iPhone for enjoying movies, shows, and games. Nano-texture finish on inner display to reduce glare Wide-angle OLEDs for excellent viewing angles 3000 nits peak brightness 50% larger display than iPhone 18 Pro Max 7.6″ Super Retina XDR display 4 Versatility Reimagined iOS. Anything’s posable. A posable design and reimagined iOS 27 open up totally new iPhone experiences — and transitioning between displays and orientations is seamless. Get things done on the outer display or large inner display. Angle iPhone Duo for the perfect view of movies and shows. Stand it up and take hands-free videos and calls. Sometimes all you need is a change of space. Whatever shape your day takes. Split View multitasking. Multitasking across your favorite apps has never been easier. Now you can browse your Photos library on one side, and drag a picture into Mail on the other. Siri AI. Ask questions, get answers, and use the rich conversation window. A larger canvas makes iPhone Duo great for Siri AI. 2 Flexible views. With a dual-display system, you’ve always got options. Like watching your favorite movies or shows on the outer display at just the right angle. © 2026 MLS. All Major League Soccer trademarks and copyrights used by permission. All rights reserved. Hands-free FaceTime. iPhone Duo can stand on its own, so you can take FaceTime calls without holding up your phone. Advanced camera system Your new favorite camera features. Hands down. iPhone Duo gives the camera system you love delightful new features. Duo Preview and Kid Cue help everyone look their best. Include the people around you in group calls with Duo FaceTime. Use Smart Take so you can be part of the moment, not stuck photographing it. And capture dazzling 48MP photos and 4K 120 fps videos . 48MP Fusion Ultra Wide camera 48MP Fusion Main camera 12MP Center Stage front camera Under-display FaceTime camera A whole family of possibilities. Smart Take Duo Preview Kid Cue Duo FaceTime Smart Take Smart Take. iPhone Duo can detect when everyone is ready and takes pictures. So you don’t have to race against a timer to get in the shot. Duo Preview Duo Preview. The outer display lets whoever you’re photographing see a live preview of the shot, so they can get their pose and framing just right. Kid Cue Kid Cue. Getting kids to look at the camera just got a lot easier. Playful animations on the outer display naturally draw their eyes to the lens. Duo FaceTime Duo FaceTime. Lets nearby friends join the call on the outer display. No more crowding around or passing the phone. Set to stunning. Photographic Styles 3. In addition to tone and color, you can now customize texture and grain to smooth out skin details or achieve an artful film look, all while staying true to your original photo. Intelligent photo editing. Reframe a photo after it’s been taken with Spatial Reframing. Expand your shots with the Extend tool. And remove even larger objects with the enhanced Clean Up tool. 5 All possible with Apple Intelligence. Usage limits may apply. High image quality. 48MP frames are used throughout the imaging pipeline of the Fusion Main camera, for photos with remarkable resolution and detail. Low-light videos. Capture impressive videos in low-light conditions with the default 1080p setting. Cinematic mode. Apply a depth&#x2011;of&#x2011;field effect that keeps your subject sharp while creating a beautifully blurred foreground and background. You can even apply and adjust it after you’ve captured a video. 4K time-lapse. Record in more detail with support for 4K resolution with Dolby Vision HDR. Smart focus tracking. On-device intelligence lets you lock onto a subject and maintain focus as they move through the scene — even if they leave and then reenter the frame. 2x optical-quality zoom. Add extended reach to your compositions without sacrificing detail. Center Stage. Frame your selfies in more flexible ways. Go from portrait to landscape without moving your iPhone. And fit more people in the frame automatically. Customizable widgets. Get fast access to manual controls like white balance and focus. Performance and battery life Power on full display. The A20 Pro chip with the Dual 16&#x2011;core Neural Engine is purpose&#x2011;built to handle intensive AI workloads. And an advanced thermal management system with a vapor chamber gives iPhone Duo pro performance, perfect for demanding tasks and gaming sessions. Up to 20% faster 6&#x2011;core CPU than A19 Pro Up to 50% more memory bandwidth than A19 Pro Power coupled. An iPhone-first dual-battery system , along with an internal space-saving eSIM design 6 , maximizes physical space for battery capacity. And the C2 modem delivers groundbreaking efficiency. So even if you’re scrolling and gaming throughout the day, iPhone Duo can go the distance on a single charge 1 . And you’ll get up to 50 percent charge in around 20 minutes with fast wired charging 7 . Up to 31 hours video playback when using the inner display 8 Up to 44 hours video playback when using the outer display 8 Compare with iPhone 13 iPhone 13 Pro iPhone 13 Pro Max iPhone 14 iPhone 14 Pro iPhone 14 Pro Max iPhone 15 iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 15 Pro Max iPhone 16 iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 16 Pro Max iPhone 17 iPhone 17 Pro iPhone 17 Pro Max Up to 80% faster 6-core CPU Up to 3.4x faster 7-core GPU Up to 4.5x faster Neural Engine Up to 25 more hours video playback when using the outer display 8 Up to 80% faster 6-core CPU Up to 3x faster 7-core GPU Up to 4.5x faster Neural Engine Up to 22 more hours video playback when using the outer display 8 Up to 80% faster 6-core CPU Up to 3x faster 7-core GPU Up to 4.5x faster Neural Engine Up to 16 more hours video playback when using the outer display 8 Up to 80% faster 6-core CPU Up to 3x faster 7-core GPU Up to 4.5x faster Neural Engine Up to 24 more hours video playback when using the outer display 8 Up to 60% faster 6-core CPU Up to 2.8x faster 7-core GPU Up to 4.5x faster Neural Engine Up to 21 more hours video playback when using the outer display 8 Up to 60% faster 6-core CPU Up to 2.8x faster 7-core GPU Up to 4.5x faster Neural Engine Up to 15 more hours video playback when using the outer display 8 Up to 60% faster 6-core CPU Up to 2.8x faster 7-core GPU Up to 4.5x faster Neural Engine Up to 24 more hours video playback when using the outer display 8 Up to 50% faster 6-core CPU Up to 2.1x faster 7-core GPU Up to 2x faster Neural Engine Up to 21 more hours video playback when using the outer display 8 Up to 50% faster 6-core CPU Up to 2.1x faster 7-core GPU Up to 2x faster Neural Engine Up to 15 more hours video playback when using the outer display 8 Up to 30% faster 6-core CPU Up to 2x faster 7-core GPU Up to 2x faster Neural Engine Up to 22 more hours video playback when using the outer display 8 Up to 30% faster 6-core CPU Up to 80% faster 7-core GPU Up to 2x faster Neural Engine Up to 17 more hours video playback when using the outer display 8 Up to 30% faster 6-core CPU Up to 80% faster 7-core GPU Up to 2x faster Neural Engine Up to 11 more hours video playback when using the outer display 8 Up to 20% faster 6-core CPU Up to 60% faster 7-core GPU Up to 2x faster Neural Engine Up to 14 more hours video playback when using the outer display 8 Up to 20% faster 6-core CPU Up to 40% faster 7-core GPU Up to 2x faster Neural Engine Up to 11 more hours video playback when using the outer display 8 Up to 20% faster 6-core CPU Up to 40% faster 7-core GPU Up to 2x faster Neural Engine Up to 5 more hours video playback when using the outer display 8 All in the family All the must&#x2011;haves. All on iPhone. The latest iPhone models come packed with advanced capabilities. Siri AI , your new, more powerful AI assistant. Apple Intelligence for next-level photo editing, Writing Tools, Visual Intelligence, 9 and child safety features to make your everyday effortless. 2 Fast, secure connections with Wi&#x2011;Fi 7, 10 Bluetooth 6, 5G, 11 and eSIM. 6 And safety features like Messages via satellite designed to give you peace of mind. 12 Meet Siri AI. Your AI assistant. More personal. More powerful. Siri AI is rolling out in English. 2 Usage limits may apply. Learn more about Siri AI Just ask Siri AI. Powered by Apple Intelligence, Siri AI is your conversational AI assistant with entirely new capabilities on iPhone. 2 Ask open-ended questions, brainstorm ideas for work or creative projects on the go, and engage in natural, back&#x2011;and&#x2011;forth conversations. Personal context. Siri AI can find relevant answers to what you’re looking for just by asking. Search for a photo from years ago, easily locate an email buried in your inbox, or pull up a note you saved on your iPhone. App actions. Siri AI can take actions in apps like Messages, Music, Reminders, and more based on what you’re doing in the moment. Quickly edit a message you just sent or add a song you hear in the car to your workout playlist. World knowledge. Ask about virtually any topic that’s on your mind, from important facts to recipes and travel recommendations. Siri AI can reference information online to give you detailed, up-to-date insights. Siri app. A dedicated app brings together all your conversations in one place, so you can ask a question on your iPhone and pick up where you left off on your iPad. You can also pin conversations for easy access or start a new one. Siri mode in Camera. Siri mode and Visual Intelligence let you search, ask questions, and take action based on what’s around you with just a tap. 13 Customize Siri. Pick a voice, then customize expressivity and pace until it clicks for you. 14 Write with Siri. Siri AI can now generate a draft from scratch or provide feedback on what you’ve written. Just describe what you need in your own words. And in Messages and Mail, Siri AI can match your writing style, punctuation, and tone. iOS and Apple Intelligence. Helpful in all the right places. Learn more about iOS 27 and Apple Intelligence Call Context. Call Context can proactively surface relevant information from across your apps when you’re calling a business — like a confirmation code from Mail when you call an airline. Child safety features. New and expanded child safety features help make it easier for parents and guardians to keep kids safe online. Clean Up. Remove even larger objects with higher&#x2011;quality infill, and blend your background seamlessly so your photos look their best. 5 Usage limits may apply. Image Playground. Create unique, high-quality images in just about any style, including photorealistic. Modify and transform your images with just a description or using touch for endless possibilities. Usage limits may apply. Suggestions. Messages 15 and Mail offer suggestions to help you take quick actions based on context from your conversation — add a calendar event or search for a photo with just a tap. Available in English. Safari tabs. Now your tabs can be automatically grouped into topics, so related pages are easier to find. Safari Notify Me monitors pages for changes — for example, a price change or restock — and alerts you when it’s time to act. And you can create an extension that personalizes website content and formatting or automates common Safari actions. Shortcuts. Automate daily tasks with a simple description. Just describe what you need, and Shortcuts creates an automation that connects actions across apps. Usage limits may apply. Connectivity. Peace of mind in your pocket. eSIM. A built-in eSIM provides seamless connectivity, flexibility, convenience, and better security without the need for a physical SIM card — perfect for traveling. 6 Learn more about eSIM Messages via satellite. Send and receive messages when you’re off the grid, right from the Messages app. 12 Roadside Assistance via satellite. Get help for things like a flat tire or dead car battery. iPhone will connect you with a roadside assistance provider, who can send help to your exact location. 16 See how Roadside Assistance works Emergency SOS via satellite. If you try calling 911 but don’t have cell service or Wi-Fi, you can use iPhone to text emergency services over satellite. 12 See how Emergency SOS via satellite works Crash Detection. Hardware sensors and advanced motion algorithms can detect a severe car crash and call for help if you can’t. 17 Find My. Securely share your location with friends and family. Accessories Snap it on. Stand it up. iPhone Duo Case offers lightweight protection in stylish colors. iPhone Duo Folio with Kickstand features a retractable kickstand for a range of helpful viewing angles. Shop all iPhone accessories Why Apple is the best place to shop iPhone. Shop iPhone Apple Upgrade Love it. Lease it. Upgrade it. Lease a new iPhone with low monthly payments for 24 or 36 months and upgrade at the end of your term. § Apple Trade In Save on a new iPhone with a trade&#x2011;in. Get credit toward your next iPhone when you trade in an eligible device. 18 Apple Trade In Trade in your eligible device for credit. Just add a trade&#x2011;in when you choose a new product. Once your eligible device has been received and verified, we’ll credit the value to your payment method. Or choose to check out with Apple Card Monthly Installments and we’ll apply the credit instantly. Terms apply. Learn more about Apple Trade In Apple Trade In Get credit toward your next iPhone when you trade in an eligible device. With Apple Trade In, you can get credit toward a new iPhone when you trade in your Android phone. 18 Apple Trade In Trade in your eligible Android device for credit. Just add a trade&#x2011;in when you choose a new product. Once your eligible Android device has been received and verified, we’ll credit the value to your payment method. Or choose to check out with Apple Card Monthly Installments and we’ll apply the credit instantly. Terms apply. Learn more about Apple Trade In Ways to Buy Pay over time, interest&#x2011;free. When you choose to check out at Apple with Apple Card Monthly Installments. ** Ways to Buy Apple Card Monthly Installments. Pay for your new iPhone over time, interest‑free with Apple Card. ** Simply choose to check out at Apple with Apple Card Monthly Installments as your payment option when you make your purchase. And enjoy 3% Daily Cash back, all up front. Terms apply. Learn more about Apple Card Monthly Installments Personal Setup Meet your new iPhone with Personal Setup. Jump into online sessions with a Specialist to set up your iPhone and discover new features. Personal Setup Jump into online, one&#x2011;on&#x2011;one sessions. When you buy your new iPhone directly from Apple, you’ll get access to Personal Setup. In these guided online sessions, a Specialist can walk you through setup and data transfer or focus on features that help you make the most of your iPhone. Best of all, you can join whenever works for you, from wherever you are. Learn more about your new iPhone Delivery and Pickup Get flexible delivery and easy pickup. Choose two&#x2011;hour delivery from an Apple Store, free delivery, or easy pickup options. Delivery and Pickup Flexible delivery and pickup options. Get your new Apple products quickly and easily with two&#x2011;hour delivery from an Apple Store, free next&#x2011;day delivery, or convenient Apple pickup options. Learn more , delivery and pickup options Guided Shopping Shop live with a Specialist. Let us help you find what you need and answer all of your questions, one on one, at an Apple Store or online. Guided Shopping Get help finding what’s right for you. Specialists are here to answer your questions about all things Apple. Shop one on one with an Apple Specialist live, at an Apple Store or online. Shop with a Specialist online Apple Store App Explore a shopping experience designed around you. Use the Apple Store app to get a more personal way to shop. Apple Store App Shop in the Apple Store app, tailored specifically for you. Get personalized product recommendations, compare models, access Your Saves, and track your orders. And opt in today to get updates on new products, promotions, flexible payment options, and store events. Download the Apple Store app Scan the QR code to get started. Kee