Saving another 100TB of RAM with math (and Rust) | Cloudflare Blog Skip to content All Categories AI Developers Radar Product News Security Policy &amp; Legal Zero Trust Speed &amp; Reliability Life at Cloudflare Partners Switch Site Language English Deutsch Español Español (Latinoamérica) Français Italiano 日本語 한국어 繁體中文 简体中文 Português Русский Bahasa Indonesia ภาษาไทย Tiếng Việt Polski العربية עברית Svenska Nederlands Türkçe Login Dashboard Contact Sales Blog Deep Dive Engineering Open Source +4 Show 4 more tags 7 Tags Show 7 tags Post Tags Deep Dive Engineering Open Source Optimization Performance Pingora Rust All tags Matching tags No tags found 1.1.1.1 2FA Abuse Access Access Control Lists (ACLs) Accessibility Account Takeover Acquisitions Addressing Advanced Certificate Manager Advanced DDoS Advertising Aegis AEO Africa Afroflare Agent Cloud Agent Development Lifecycle Agent Readiness Agents Agents Week Agents Week 2026 AI AI Bots AI Gateway AI Search AI WAF AI Week AI-SPM Alertmanager Always Online AMD AMP Analytics Anonymous Anti Malware Anycast API API Gateway API Security API Shield APJC Apple Application Security Application Services Area 1 Security Argo Smart Routing ASCII Asia Athenian Project Atlassian Attacks Audit Logs Austin Australia Authentication Authy Auto Rag Automatic HTTPS Automatic Platform Optimization Automation AutoMinify Awards AWS Baidu Bandwidth Alliance Bandwidth Costs Best Practices Beta Better Internet BGP Billing Birthday Week Black Friday Blackbird Bot Fight Mode Bot Management Botnet Bots BPF Brand Brand Protection Brazil Browser Insights Browser Rendering Browser Run Bug Bounty Bugs BYOIP Cache Cache Purge Cache Reserve Cache Rules California Canada Cap&#39;n Proto CAPTCHA Careers CASB Categories CDN CDNJS Certificate Authority Certificate Pinning Certificate Transparency Certification CFSSL Challenge Page ChatGPT China China Network Christmas Chrome CIO Week CISA Claire CLI ClickHouse Clientless Clientless Web Isolation Cloud Connector Cloud Email Security Cloudflare Access Cloudflare Apps Cloudflare Area 1 Cloudflare Calls Cloudflare Email Service Cloudflare for Campaigns Cloudflare for SaaS Cloudflare for Startups Cloudflare Gateway Cloudflare History Cloudflare Images Cloudflare Media Platform Cloudflare Meetups Cloudflare Network Cloudflare One Cloudflare One Client Cloudflare One User Risk Score Cloudflare One Week Cloudflare OS Cloudflare Pages Cloudflare Polish Cloudflare Queues Cloudflare Realtime Cloudflare Stream Cloudflare Tunnel Cloudflare TV Cloudflare Workers Cloudflare Workers (PT) Cloudflare Workers KV Cloudflare Workers KV (ES) Cloudflare Zero Trust Cloudforce One Cloudy Code Orange Coinbase Colombia Community Compliance Compression Config Rules Configuration Management Congestion Control Connectivity Connectivity Cloud Consumer Services Containers Content Independence Day Content Scanning Context Core COVID-19 Crawler Hints CrowdStrike Crypto Week Cryptography CSAM Reporting Customer Success Customer Zero Customers CVE CVE-2023-50387 Cyber Readiness Cybersecurity D1 Dashboard Data Data Catalog Data Center Data Localization Data Localization Suite Data Loss Data Loss Prevention Data Platform Data Privacy Day Data Protection Data Sovereignty Data Transfer Bucket Database DDoS DDoS Alerts DDoS Reports Debugging Deep Dive Descaler Design Deskope Developer Documentation Developer Platform Developer Spotlight Developer Week Developers Developers Storage Device Security DevOps DEX Digital Experience Monitoring Digital Forensics Disrupt Distributed Distributed Systems Distributed Web Diversity DLP DMARC DNS DNS Filtering DNS Flood DNS Security DNSSEC Dogfooding DoH Domain Rankings Domain Scoped Roles dosd Drupal Due Process Durable Execution Durable Objects Early Hints Earth Day eBPF EC2 eCommerce Edge Edge Computing Edge Database Edge Rules Education Egress Elastic Election Security Elections Elliptic Curves Email Email Routing Email Security Email Workers EmDash Emissions Employee Resource Groups Encrypted SNI Encryption Engineering Enterprise Entropy EPYC Ethereum Europe European Union Events Exploit Facebook Fancy Bear Fast Fonts FCC Feature Flags FedRAMP FedRAMP High FedRAMP Moderate Firefox Firewall Firmware Florida Football Formal Methods Forrester Fortran Foundation DNS Founders&#39; Letter France Fraud Free Freedom of Speech Front End Full Stack Full Stack Week Fun GA Week Gartner Gatebot GDPR Gen X General Availability Generative AI Geo Key Manager Germany GitHub Go Google Google Analytics Google Cloud Google Workspace Government Innovation Grace Hopper Grafana GraphQL Green Grinch Growth gRPC Guest Post Hackathon Halloween Hardware HashiCorp Hertzbleed Heuristics History Holidays Holocaust Hong Kong Hosting Con Hostnames HTTP2 HTTP3 HTTPS Human Rights Hurricane Hybrid Cloud Hyperdrive I&#39;m Under Attack Mode IBM ICANN iCloud Private Relay Identity IETF IETF Standards IL4 Image Optimization Image Recognition Image Resizing Image Storage Impact Impact Week Incident Report Incident Response India Indicators of Compromise Indonesian Inference Infrastructure Infrastructure as Code Insights Intel Interconnection Internal DNS Internet Performance Internet Quality Internet Regulation Internet Shutdown Internet Summit Internet Traffic Internet Trends Internship Experience Intrusion Detection Investors IoCs iOS IoT IPFS IPsec IPv4 IPv6 IRAP Israel Italy IWD JAMstack Japan JavaScript Jengo Jengo Policy Joomla Judeoflare Kafka Kernel Key Value Keyless SSL KeyTrap Killnet Korea Kubernetes LangChain Latency Latin America Latinflare LavaRand Lazarus group Leaked Credential Checks Legal Legal Patents Sable LGBTQIA+ Life at Cloudflare Linux Lisbon Live Streaming Llama LLM Load Balancing Localization Log Push Log4J Log4Shell Logging Logs LUA Machine Learning Magecart Magic Firewall Magic Network Monitoring Magic Transit Magic WAN Magic WAN Connector Malicious JavaScript Malware Managed Components Managed Rules March of Cloudflare MASQUE MCP Meerkat MeetUp Meris Message Protocol Mexico Micro-frontends Microsoft Microsoft 365 Microsoft Azure Middle East Migration Hub Milestones Miniflare Mirage Mirai Mitel Mitigation Mixed Content Errors MLops Mobile Mobile SDK Model Context Protocol Moldova Monitoring Multi-Cloud Multi-User MySQL NaaS Net Neutrality Network Network Interconnect Network Performance Update Network Protection Network Services Networking New Year NGINX Ninjas NIST Node.js North America Notebooks Notifications NSEC3 OAuth Observability Oceania OCSP Offices Okta Olympics Onboarding Open API Open Source OpenAI OpenBMC OpenDNS OpenSSL OpenTelemetry Optimization Origin Rules Outage Oxy Pacific Northwest Page Rules Page Shield Parallels Partners Partnership Password-reuse Passwords Passwords (PT) Patents Pay Per Crawl PAYGO Payments PCI Certified Peering Performance Performance Optimization Phishing php Phython Pingora Pipelines PlanetScale Plans Platform Engineering Platform Week Plesk Policy &amp; Legal Politics Portugal Post Mortem Post-Quantum Postgres Precursor Prepared Statements Prisma Privacy Privacy Pass Privacy Week Private IP Private Network Product Design Product News Programming Programming (PT) Project Fair Shot Project Galileo Project Honey Pot Project Pangea Project Safekeeping Project Turpentine Prometheus Protocols Proudflare Proxying Public Sector Python Python Workers Quantization Queues QUIC QUICHE Quicksilver R2 R2 Super Slurper Radar Radar Alerts Radar API Radar Maps Railgun Randomness Ransom Attacks Rapid Reset Raspberry Pi Rate Limiting RC4 RDDoS React Reading List Real-time Recruiting Regional Services Registrar Reliability Remote Browser Isolation Remote Desktop Protocol Remote Work Replication Research Resolver Restreaming Retreat Reverse Engineering REvil Risk Management Road to Zero Trust Rocket Loader RocksDB Routing Routing Security RPC RPKI RRDNS RSA Russia Rust Rust Workers SaaS SAAS Security Sable Salt Sampling Sandbox SASE Save The Web SDK Search Engine Secrets Store Secure Web Gateway Security Security Analytics Security Center Security Posture Security Posture Management Security Service Edge Security Week security.txt SEO Server Push Serverless Serverless (PT) Serverless AI Serverless Week Servers SIEM Signed Exchanges (SXG) SIM Singapore Single Sign On (SSO) Smart Placement Smart Shield Snippets SOC as a Service South Africa South America Spain spdy Spectrum Speed Speed &amp; Reliability Speed Brain Speed Week Spoofing Sports SQL SRE SSE SSH SSL Standards Startup Enterprise Plan Statistics StopTheHacker Storage Sumo Logic Super Bowl Supercloud Supply Chain Attacks Support Sustainability SWAG SWG Swift Switzerland SXSW SYN SYN Flood Syria TCP Team Teams Dashboard Tech Talks TechCrunch Technical Writing Terraform Testimonials Testing Texas Thanksgiving The Serverlist Newsletter Threat Data Threat Feeds Threat Intelligence Threat Operations Threat Report Threats Tiered Cache TikTok TLS TLS 1.3 Tools Tor Tracing Traffic Transform Rules Transparency Trends Trust &amp; Safety TTFB TTL TURN TURN Server Turnstile TypeScript UDP Ukraine United Kingdom Universal SSL URL Scanner USA User Research VDI Vectorize Vetflare Video Visibility Vite VoIP VPC VPN Vulnerabilities WAF WAF Attack Score WAF Rules Waiting Room WARP WARP Connector WASM Web Application Firewall Web Asset Discovery Web3 WebAssembly Webinars WebMCP WebP WebRTC WebSockets Wildebeest Womenflare WordPress Workers AI Workers Launchpad Workers Logs Workers Observability Workers Sites Workers Unbound Workers VPC Workflows World IPv6 Day Wrangler x402 Year in Review Z3 Zaraz Zero Day Threats Zero Trust Zero Trust Week Zone Versioning Artificial Intelligence Workers Client-Side Security Optimization Performance Pingora Rust Deep Dive Engineering Open Source Optimization Performance Pingora Rust September 18, 2026 Saving another 100TB of RAM with math (and Rust) Kevin Guthrie , Mariia Iurchenko , Zaidoon Abd Al Hadi , and Ivan Babrou 13 minute read COPY URL Cloudflare operates at a scale so big that even after working here for years, it doesn’t seem real. We have thousands of servers all over the world with petabytes of RAM and millions of CPU cores, and all of it is pushed to the max. As vast as those resources feel, they are still finite, and when you need every service to run on every node, it doesn’t leave room for wasted space. At this scale, small improvements are greatly magnified, so even 1%-at-a-time improvements are worth celebrating. And some tweaks add up to a lot more: in this post, we’ll look at how small changes to a single algorithm reduced the memory footprint of one of our Pingora-based services significantly. That allowed us to reclaim more than 100TB of RAM globally, on top of the 100TB of memory the DNS team was able to shed last month . Waste not Maintaining equitable resource sharing between teams is not easy, especially in large organizations. One of the ways Cloudflare ensures the balance is kept is through the tireless efforts of the wonderful Performance team. This story starts with a ticket filed by Ivan who found: Excessive memory usage from pingora-ketama in Pingora Backend Router . The finding was that our internal load-balancing service, Pingora Backend Router (yes, PBR), was using significantly more memory than expected — specifically in structures associated with pingora-ketama, which is our open-source library for handling consistent hashing. In order to talk about how we addressed this seeming overuse of memory, we need to talk about what consistent hashing even is, why we are using it in PBR, and how it became so memory hungry. Along the way, we’ll learn some Rust and even a little math. Consistent hashing Consistent hashing is a widely used method for distributing tasks across multiple servers in a way that does not require large changes when servers are added or removed. Internally we use it to route cacheable requests to servers by URL. This allows us to keep only one copy of a file stored per data center and gives a stable way to find the location of each file. We have mentioned this system before , but let’s take the time to walk through how and why this algorithm is used and how it works. The key concept of consistent hashing is that while hash functions can accept any kind of input, their output is limited to a single unsigned integer (32, 64, or 128-bit integers depending on which hash function). This allows us to relate tasks and servers to each other in a consistent way. Most discussions of consistent hashing have you think of that output space as a continuous, circular ring that wraps around from its max value to zero. This depiction makes for some nice visualizations, but it can also make the simple concept of integer ranges seem more complicated than it needs to be. For our discussion, we’ll represent the 32-bit output of our hash function as a number line. Now, let’s say we have a set of servers, A, B, &amp; C, and a set of tasks t-z. We can map each onto the number line based on the hash of their representative values, so something like IP addresses for servers and cache keys for tasks. Assigning tasks to servers is now just a matter of finding the first server to the left of each task. We can represent this visually by coloring in the region of hashes that will be associated with each server. Notice that the range covered by server C wraps around to the beginning, hence the idea that hashes exist in a ring. And that’s it. At a base level, consistent hashing is this simple — but it doesn’t take long to see that there is room for improvement. Notice that the range covered by server A in our example is significantly larger than that of either B or C. This is a problem because the fraction of the requests a server handles is going to be proportional to the size of its range on the number line. Ideally we would like to guarantee each server will have an equal size, but because hashes are essentially random numbers, we have to talk about the size of the regions in terms of statistics . 😨 Math and consequences First: don’t panic. I promise I&#39;m not about to lie to you and that we will stay safely within the bounds of a day-one probability lesson. When we talk about statistical distributions, there are two big factors that help us quantify uncertainty in helpful ways: expected value and standard deviation . In (over-)simplified terms, expected value gives us a point where measurements based on a distribution will be centered, and standard deviation tells how close to that central point most measurements are likely to be. For consistent hashing, we can calculate these factors for the fractional size of the range associated with one of N servers. (Details on where this formula comes from later). $$m \begin{align*} \text{Exp} &amp;= \frac{1}{N} \\ \text{SD} &amp;= \frac{1}{N}\sqrt{\frac{N-1}{N+1}} \end{align*} m$$ In terms of concrete numbers, let’s say we have 100 servers. The formulas above give: $$m \text{Exp}=1/100 = 1\% \\ \text{SD}= \frac{1}{100}\sqrt{\frac{100-1}{100+1}} \approx 0.99\% m$$ That tells us that we can expect that the range each server handles will be centered around 0.99% of the total and most of the lengths to fall within 1% of what&#39;s expected. This sounds good until we realize that that’s 0.99% of the total length . We need to scale the standard deviation by the expected value to see how big the error is as a fraction of the target size. This value is called the coefficient of variation . $$m \text{CV} = \frac{\text{SD}}{\text{Exp}} = \sqrt{\frac{N-1}{N+1}} m$$ At $m N=100, \text{CV} \approx 99\% m$ — meaning some servers will likely be working 99% harder than they should be (handling twice as many requests) while others could be doing practically nothing! Now that we have a way to predict how evenly loaded servers will be using consistent hashing, we can start working on improvements. What if we add hashes? The simplicity of consistent hashing is a double-edged sword. It’s easy to understand and implement because everything is turned into easily-relatable hashes on the same numberline, but any improvements to the system will also need to be relatable to that numberline. That means the solution to any consistent hashing problem can only be more hashes . It’s less like a golden hammer (a tool with which all problems look like nails) and more like a golden nail in that it turns all tools into hammers. To solve the problem of imbalanced workloads, we can add multiple hashes to represent each server instead of just one. We’ll get to the math behind this momentarily, but it should make some intuitive sense that while each individual range has a large standard deviation, adding a bunch together should make their total size even out. If we take our three-server example from the above diagrams and add two more hashes at random for each server, we see that it helps even out each server’s workload. This is an admittedly contrived example. The random nature of the system means there’s no guarantee how much improvement you will get from adding 2 additional hashes per server, but it should make some intuitive sense that combining more of these hash segments together produces a more even distribution. Each segment in the sum has a chance of balancing another. Maybe one is too short; maybe one is too long. This is essentially what the law of large numbers tells us should happen… The obvious problem is it only works for large numbers. In NGINX, the baseline number of hashes per server is hardcoded to 160 , and Pingora uses the same value as the default . I’ll spare you the math for now, but if we go back to our 100-server example, if we use 160 points per server instead of just one, the coefficient of variation (which we can think of like an error margin) drops from about 99% to about 8%, a significant improvement. What if we add more hashes? We saw above that increasing the number of hashes per server by a constant amount allows us to improve how evenly workloads are distributed per server, but what if we don’t want to distribute the work evenly? In Cloudflare’s case, we have some servers that have more storage space than others, so it would be better to have the number of requests allotted to a server be proportional to its disk space. One way to accomplish this is with the ketama algorithm. The naming is a little funny because the algorithm is named after the library where it was first implemented , and the library was named … well you can google it 😶‍🌫️. The whole algorithm boils down to: For any two servers, $m S_1m$ &amp; $mS_2m$, if we want the requests served by $mS_1m$ to be $mw\timesm$ more than those served by $mS_2m$, the number of hashes associated with $mS_1m$ needs to be $mH_1 = w\times H_2m$. This allows us to set a “weight” for each server, which scales the number of hashes associated with that server. Unfortunately this is not a replacement for the constant scale factor we added in the section above. That scaling needs to be there to set a minimum error margin, which will show up in the servers with the lowest weights. For us, since we want workload to be scaled based on storage, we can use the disk space as the weight, which is exactly what the Pingora team has been doing for years. Elsewhere in the company where workloads are more compute-intensive, weights might be based on CPU or GPU count. What if we add even more hashes??? The last problem we need to address is that so far we are working under the assumption that any server can handle any request, but in practice that is not the case. Things like compliance requirements or enabled caching features mean only a subset of servers can handle any particular request. Unfortunately, unlike before, we can’t solve this problem by adding more hashes to the same ring. We have to add completely new rings, and not only that — every combination of features potentially needs its own specific ring! Duplication based on combinations is a classic recipe for exponential ex