Quick Tunnels · Cloudflare Quick Tunnels How it works For agents Install Docs Start a tunnel Now with JSON output for coding agents Localhost, meet the Internet. One command turns the server on your laptop into a public, encrypted URL on Cloudflare's edge. No account. No DNS. No open ports. $ cloudflared tunnel --url http://localhost:8000 Copy See how it works ↓ 335+ CITIES ~3S TO URL 0 PORTS OPENED FREE Your laptop stays private. The URL goes everywhere. cloudflared opens an outbound-only connection to the nearest edge location. Traffic to your tunnel URL rides Cloudflare's network back to your machine — encrypted, DDoS-filtered, and never touching an inbound port. 01 · YOUR MACHINE localhost:8000 Any framework, any port. Nothing inbound. 02 · CLOUDFLARE EDGE quiet-marble-otter-canyon.trycloudflare.com TLS DDoS filter Anycast 335+ cities 03 · ANYONE, ANYWHERE Teammates &amp; agents Browsers, webhooks, eval harnesses. ~3s Instant setup No sign-up, no config file, no waiting on DNS. The URL prints before your coffee cools. 0 Ports opened Outbound-only. Automatic HTTPS and edge DDoS mitigation come with every tunnel. 335+ Cities on the edge A reviewer in Tokyo and a webhook in Frankfurt both hit the edge nearest them. BUILT FOR THE AGENT ERA Your agent needs a URL, not a laptop. Coding agents build, test, and review in loops. A Quick Tunnel gives every loop a real, reachable address — for a screenshot service, a webhook, an eval harness, or a human who wants to click around. 01 Structured output Hostname, edge, and health as JSON on stdout — no regex on logs. 02 Webhook-ready Point Stripe, GitHub, or your own callbacks at a live URL instead of fixtures. 03 Ephemeral by design The tunnel dies with the process. Nothing to revoke, nothing to clean up. agent-runner — zsh $ Install. Run. Share. macOS Windows Linux 01 Install cloudflared From your package manager or GitHub releases . No login required. brew install cloudflared 02 Run your app Any web server, any port, any stack you already use. npm run dev 03 Open the tunnel Certificates, routing, and DDoS protection are handled for you. cloudflared tunnel --url http://localhost:8000 04 Share the link Send it to a teammate, a webhook, or an agent. https://quiet-marble-otter-canyon.trycloudflare.com Nothing to sign up for. Go. Copy the command Read the docs Quick Tunnels Ephemeral, encrypted tunnels on Cloudflare's edge. For previews, CI, webhooks, and agents. Product Quick Tunnels docs Cloudflare Tunnel Cloudflare One Resources Developer community Blog GitHub Company About Careers Press © Cloudflare, Inc. Privacy Terms Status