ASML says it sold 'absolutely nothing' in Europe in 2026 &mdash; lithography giant calls on EU to help create demand | Tom's Hardware Skip to main content Join Tom&rsquo;s Hardware today Upgrade to Tom&rsquo;s Hardware Premium Explore GO PREMIUM Choose how you want to join Tom&rsquo;s Hardware MEMBER Get started with free access to reviews, badges and discussions. Become a member Premium member Unlock exclusive tools and insights for enthusiasts who want more. Bench Database Exclusive Features Roadmaps Deep Analysis Become a premium member Go beyond the headlines with Tom&rsquo;s Hardware Premium Access Bench, Roadmaps, deep analysis and other exclusive tools. Explore PREMIUM Bench Performance Database Dive into our proprietary testing data and compare hardware with detailed benchmarks. Deep-Dive Analysis Go beyond the headlines with expert reporting on the hardware industry. Hardware Roadmaps Track upcoming CPUs, GPUs and tech releases before they arrive. Exclusive Long-Form Features In-depth features, interviews and insider stories from the world of hardware. Uptime Premium Newsletter Expert insights and analysis delivered to your inbox. of Bench Performance Database Dive into our proprietary testing data and compare hardware with detailed benchmarks. 1 of 5 Deep-Dive Analysis Go beyond the headlines with expert reporting on the hardware industry. 2 of 5 Hardware Roadmaps Track upcoming CPUs, GPUs and tech releases before they arrive. 3 of 5 Exclusive Long-Form Features In-depth features, interviews and insider stories from the world of hardware. 4 of 5 Uptime Premium Newsletter Expert insights and analysis delivered to your inbox. 5 of 5 Explore PREMIUM Welcome to Tom's Hardware club ! Hi , Your membership journey starts here. Keep exploring and earning more as a member. MY ACCOUNT Earn your first badge Read 1 article to unlock your first badge. Keep earning badges Explore ways to get more involved as a member. Latest on CPUs News, reviews, and technical insights. Explore GPU Insights Reviews, benchmarks, and updates on current GPUs. Explore See what you&rsquo;ve unlocked. Explore your membership benefits. Explore Unlock Premium Limited-time Premium offer Cancel anytime Explore premium Sign Out Premium Member Hi , Keep exploring with your premium access. Go TO Premium Hub Premium Tools Bench Database Exclusive Features Roadmaps Deep Analysis My Account Sign Out Open menu Tom's Hardware US Edition UK US Australia Canada RSS Sign in View Profile Sign out Search Search Tom's Hardware Best Picks CPU Buying Advice CPU Best Picks CPU Reviews GPU Buying Advice GPU Best Picks GPU Reviews Laptop Buying Advice Laptop Best Picks Laptop Reviews More Buying Advice Keyboard Best Picks Gaming Monitor Best Picks Gaming Headset Best Picks 3D Printer Best Picks Webcam Best Picks Mice Best Picks How We Test CPUs CPU Brands Nvidia RTX Spark AMD Ryzen Intel Core Ultra Qualcomm Snapdragon X Apple Silicon (M-Series) Platforms X86 RISC-V ARM Zen 5 AM5 Oryon Chipmaking DUV EUV Rare Earth Metals Photonics GPUs GPU Brands Nvidia Blackwell Nvidia GeForce AMD Radeon Intel Arc Memory Tech GDDR7 GDDR8 HBM AI Architecture Nvidia Vera Rubin Meta MTIA Google TPU AMD Instinct Microsoft Maia Drivers PC Components Memory RAM DRAM DDR5 Storage HDDs SSDs Cooling Air Cooling Liquid Cooling Thermal Paste Networking Routers Motherboards Overclocking PC Cases PC Building Power Supplies News Tech Industry News CPU News GPU News Chips Act Semiconductors Cybersecurity Supercomputers Quantum Computing Company News AMD Intel Nvidia Microsoft TSMC IBM ASML Newsletter Laptops Gaming Laptops Ultrabooks Processors Intel Lunar Lake Intel Panther Lake AMD Strix Point AMD Gorgon Point Qualcomm Snapdragon X Qualcomm Snapdragon X2 Laptop Brands Apple Asus HP Lenovo Microsoft MSI Razer Desktops PC Building PC Cases Gaming PCs Monitors Gaming Monitors Peripherals Keyboards Mice 3D Printers Headphones Desktop Brands Acer Alienware Corsair CyberPowerPC Gigabyte MSI Software &amp; AI Artificial Intelligence Machine Learning R&amp;D Intel Gaudi Cerebras xAI LLMs OpenAI Anthropic DeepSeek Gemini Grok Operating Systems Windows MacOS iOS ChromeOS Linux Software Programming Applications Microsoft Office Web Browsers Coupons Laptop and PC Coupons Dell Coupon Codes Asus Coupon Codes Logitech Promo Codes Samsung Promo codes Hardware Coupons Newegg Promo Codes Corsair Discount Codes Razer Promo Codes Anycubic Discount codes Software Coupons Bitdefender Coupons Simplisafe Coupons MacPaw Coupons Squarespace Coupon Codes Gaming Coupons Kinguin Discount Codes Loaded Discount Codes Logitech G Promo Codes SteelSeries Coupons More Premium Forums Home Best Picks View Best Picks CPU Buying Advice CPU Best Picks CPU Reviews GPU Buying Advice GPU Best Picks GPU Reviews Laptop Buying Advice Laptop Best Picks Laptop Reviews More Buying Advice Keyboard Best Picks Gaming Monitor Best Picks Gaming Headset Best Picks 3D Printer Best Picks Webcam Best Picks Mice Best Picks How We Test CPUs View CPUs CPU Brands Nvidia RTX Spark AMD Ryzen Intel Core Ultra Qualcomm Snapdragon X Apple Silicon (M-Series) Platforms X86 RISC-V ARM Zen 5 AM5 Oryon Chipmaking View Chipmaking DUV EUV Rare Earth Metals Photonics GPUs View GPUs GPU Brands Nvidia Blackwell Nvidia GeForce AMD Radeon Intel Arc Memory Tech GDDR7 GDDR8 HBM AI Architecture Nvidia Vera Rubin Meta MTIA Google TPU AMD Instinct Microsoft Maia Drivers PC Components View PC Components Memory RAM DRAM DDR5 Storage View Storage HDDs SSDs Cooling View Cooling Air Cooling Liquid Cooling Thermal Paste Networking View Networking Routers Motherboards Overclocking PC Cases PC Building Power Supplies News View News Tech Industry News View Tech Industry News CPU News GPU News Chips Act Semiconductors Cybersecurity Supercomputers Quantum Computing Company News AMD Intel Nvidia Microsoft TSMC IBM ASML Newsletter Laptops View Laptops Gaming Laptops Ultrabooks Processors Intel Lunar Lake Intel Panther Lake AMD Strix Point AMD Gorgon Point Qualcomm Snapdragon X Qualcomm Snapdragon X2 Laptop Brands Apple Asus HP Lenovo Microsoft MSI Razer Desktops View Desktops PC Building View PC Building PC Cases Gaming PCs Monitors View Monitors Gaming Monitors Peripherals View Peripherals Keyboards Mice 3D Printers Headphones Desktop Brands Acer Alienware Corsair CyberPowerPC Gigabyte MSI Software &amp; AI View Software &amp; AI Artificial Intelligence View Artificial Intelligence Machine Learning R&amp;D Intel Gaudi Cerebras xAI LLMs View LLMs OpenAI Anthropic DeepSeek Gemini Grok Operating Systems View Operating Systems Windows MacOS iOS ChromeOS Linux Software View Software Programming Applications Microsoft Office Web Browsers Coupons View Coupons Laptop and PC Coupons View Laptop and PC Coupons Dell Coupon Codes Asus Coupon Codes Logitech Promo Codes Samsung Promo codes Hardware Coupons View Hardware Coupons Newegg Promo Codes Corsair Discount Codes Razer Promo Codes Anycubic Discount codes Software Coupons View Software Coupons Bitdefender Coupons Simplisafe Coupons MacPaw Coupons Squarespace Coupon Codes Gaming Coupons View Gaming Coupons Kinguin Discount Codes Loaded Discount Codes Logitech G Promo Codes SteelSeries Coupons Premium Forums Tom's Hardware Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware Newsletter Get Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox. Become a Member in Seconds Unlock instant access to exclusive member features. Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors By submitting your information you agree to the Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over. You are now subscribed Your newsletter sign-up was successful Join the club Get full access to premium articles, exclusive features and a growing list of member rewards. Explore An account already exists for this email address, please log in. Trending AI Data Centers RAM Shortage Vera Rubin RAM Combo Deals Nova Lake Tom's 30th Anniversary Tech Industry Manufacturing Semiconductors ASML says it sold 'absolutely nothing' in Europe in 2026 &mdash; lithography giant calls on EU to help create demand News By Anton Shilov Published 24 September 2026 Subsidies for fabs do not help. When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here&rsquo;s how it works . (Image credit: ASML) Copy link Facebook X Whatsapp Reddit Pinterest Flipboard Email Share this article 1 Join the conversation Follow us Add us as a preferred source on Google Newsletter Subscribe to our newsletter As the world's only supplier of EUV lithography systems, ASML is Europe's largest company by market capitalization, currently valued at around $660 billion. But it earned almost nothing in Europe this year, down from 1% of total profits in 2025 and 5% in 2024. Why? European chipmakers bought no lithography equipment from ASML in 2026 &mdash; and the company is calling on EU authorities to help create demand for European chips. Go deeper with TH Premium: Chipmaking (Image credit: tsmc) Analyzing TSMC's fab expansion roadmap &mdash; multi-fab N2 ramp, CoWoS, SoIC, and uncorking bottlenecks Leading-edge foundry roadmaps for TSMC, Intel, and Samsung ASML's roadmap for chipmaking lithography tools examined Chinese chipmaking tool roadmaps examined "We are selling absolutely nothing in Europe," said Frank Heemskerk, executive vice president of public affairs at ASML, while speaking at a panel discussion from the Dutch political and cultural center De Balie . "Because Europe is not investing and because no chip factories are being built in Europe. That is genuinely worrying. [&hellip;] [Our revenue share in Europe is 0%], it used to be 1%." Indeed, Europe accounted for 1% of ASML's revenue share in 2025, 5% in 2024, 4% in 2023, and 2% in 2022, based on the company's presentations for investors. In the first two quarters of 2026, however, Europe accounted for 0% of ASML's revenue, according to ASML's earnings reports. Latest Videos From Tom's Hardware Watch full video here: "There simply is no demand here for these kinds of highly specialized machines," Heemskerk said. "That is the problem. So apart from trying to attract investment with capital on the supply side, we should do much more to create demand. [&hellip;] So, we at ASML are also making an enormous effort, and we are talking with Ursula von der Leyen in Europe, saying: 'try to harness the market power and dynamism that ultimately do exist in Europe in a number of areas.'" So far, the European Union has been keen on subsidizing building new fabs in Europe (something that did not help to lure Intel in). But ASML is calling on European governments to help aggregate and guarantee demand for European-made chips &mdash; which will encourage major European chip consumers to source locally, giving semiconductor manufacturers an economic reason to build or expand fabs in Europe. You may like ASML's planned Low-NA EUV machine price hikes reportedly anger TSMC China's DUV technology 'at a similar stage to ASML in 2004,' analyst claims Intel's big $5 billion bet on Ireland aims to right the wrongs of the cancelled Magdeburg, Germany complex "We need to make sure that some of those buyers &mdash; the customers of our customers &mdash; start talking much more closely with European manufacturers again. In areas such as artificial intelligence for industry, for example, there are still plenty of opportunities that Europe can seize. But you have to organize this collectively." New fabs are being built&hellip; That said, the ASML EVP may be too pessimistic about Europe's semiconductor industry. Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware Newsletter Get Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox. Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors By submitting your information you agree to the Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over. Intel runs its massive Fab 34 near Leixlip, Ireland, and recently announced plans to invest &euro;5 billion in the facility to expand production of CPUs on Intel 4 and Intel 3 process technologies. While the new investment dwarfs Intel's plans to invest roughly &euro;80 billion in its Magdeburg, Germany, fab complex, with two first fabs alone accounting for over &euro;30 billion, it still represents Intel's commitment to its Ireland campus. In addition, ESMC &mdash; which is backed by TSMC, Bosch, Infineon, and NXP &mdash; is building a brand-new fab near Dresden that will cost around &euro;15 billion. The fab will be capable of producing chips using 12nm/16nm-class FinFET and 22nm/28nm planar transistor-based process technologies used in a wide range of automotive applications. The same nodes are also used for various consumer electronics and edge applications. Infineon also opened its new &euro;5 billion Smart Power Fab in Dresden in July 2026, which marked the largest single investment in the company's history and effectively doubled its manufacturing capacity at the site. The 300mm facility produces power semiconductors as well as analog and mixed-signal chips for automotive, industrial, renewable-energy, and AI data-center applications. What to read next Chinese chipmaking tool roadmaps examined &mdash; Beijing's nascent lithography tools target DUV production at five machines a year, and an EUV prototype with no chips TSMC, Samsung, and Intel shore up support with ASML to deploy larger High-NA EUV photomasks Zeiss expands German site that caps ASML's EUV scanner output Last but not least, GlobalFoundries officially broke ground on the latest major expansion and upgrade of Fab 1 in Dresden this March to increase capacity for its specialty process technologies, including 22nm FD-SOI (22FDX), embedded non-volatile memory (eNVM), and the BCD (bipolar-CMOS-DMOS) node for power management ICs. To some degree, the upgrade was forced by headwinds that GlobalFoundries faced when building the &euro;10.4 billion joint fab with STMicroelectronics in the Grenoble, France, region. With numerous semiconductor fab projects in place in Europe, ASML will continue to sell its tools to companies in the EU for years to come; the semiconductor industry is far from dead in the bloc. Of course, the important detail is that all of these production facilities are built by multinational corporations (sometimes in collaboration with local companies) &mdash; but this is largely a global trend rather than a major issue. &hellip;But there's a catch Although the fab projects in Europe are large in terms of investment, they pale in comparison with those being built in Taiwan, South Korea, the U.S., and Japan, where tens or even hundreds of billions of dollars are being invested in new semiconductor production facilities. What is perhaps more important from ASML's standpoint is that none of the ongoing fab projects in Europe are leading-edge fabs set to use EUV and eventually High-NA EUV lithography scanners. The tools that European fabs use today and that new facilities are set to use in the future are mature tools that cost considerably less than advanced EUV or immersion DUV scanners. This is perhaps a concern for ASML, as the company is naturally interested in selling its more sophisticated and expensive equipment. Another concern is that even advanced silicon produced in Ireland or at ESMC is then shipped to other regions for packaging, meaning that European companies have largely lost their ability to produce sophisticated chips entirely in Europe. In turn, this means that, for now, there is hardly any strategic point for European authorities to create demand for chips that are 'Made in Europe' because they are either not assembled in Europe, not produced in Europe, or not developed in Europe. We have no idea whether this is eventually going to change, but there are currently no signs that it will. Follow Tom's Hardware on Google News , or add us as a preferred source , to get our latest news, analysis, &amp; reviews in your feeds. TOPICS ASML GlobalFoundries EUV DUV See all comments (1) Anton Shilov Social Links Navigation Contributing Writer Anton Shilov is a contributing writer at Tom&rsquo;s Hardware. Over the past couple of decades, he has covered everything from CPUs and GPUs to supercomputers and from modern process technologies and latest fab tools to high-tech industry trends. Read more Semiconductors ASML's planned Low-NA EUV machine price hikes reportedly anger TSMC &nbsp; &nbsp; Semiconductors China's DUV technology 'at a similar stage to ASML in 2004,' analyst claims &nbsp; &nbsp; Tech Industry Intel's big $5 billion bet on Ireland aims to right the wrongs of the cancelled Magdeburg, Germany complex &nbsp; &nbsp; Semiconductors TSMC, Samsung, and Intel shore up support with ASML to deploy larger High-NA EUV photomasks &nbsp; &nbsp; Tech Industry Zeiss expands German site that caps ASML's EUV scanner output &nbsp; &nbsp; Semiconductors ASML looks to increase prices of its Low-NA EUV tools beyond existing productivity-based model &mdash; company wants to capture the value of all the advantages its tools offer, not just wafer throughput improvements &nbsp; &nbsp; Latest in Semiconductors Semiconductors Intel expects 14A to be 'within 5%' the performance of TSMC's A14 &nbsp; &nbsp; Semiconductors Elon Musk's Terafab hits a roadblock before making a single chip, receives cease-and-desist order &nbsp; &nbsp; Semiconductors US chip fabs face massive 157,000 worker shortfall, mere 3% of US engineering grads enter chipmaking &nbsp; &nbsp; Semiconductors ASML snubs Elon Musk-backed particle accelerator chipmaking tech &nbsp; &nbsp; Semiconductors SK hynix reportedly discussing US memory chip manufacturing with Intel &nbsp; &nbsp; Semiconductors Piecemakers bets edge AI devices will diverge from reliance on HBM &nbsp; &nbsp; Latest in News Data Centers Russia bombs Ukrainian data centers in latest escalation &nbsp; &nbsp; PlayStation Open-source AnyPS5 dumps emulation to run PlayStation 5 console games natively on PC &nbsp; &nbsp; PC Gaming 27-year-old GTA 2 gets full path tracing and 60 FPS frame generation via RTX Remix &nbsp; &nbsp; Liquid Cooling Enthusiast cooled iPhone 18 Pro with cold can of La Croix sparkling water; benchmarks show 25% higher sustained performance &nbsp; &nbsp; Cybersecurity Novel attack slashes computing power needed to crack textbook RSA cryptography &nbsp; &nbsp; Microsoft Surface Microsoft quietly drops Copilot+ branding from new laptops &nbsp; &nbsp; 1 Comment Comment from the forums GenericUser2001 Even with government subsidies, its just hard to get anything done in Europe these days. The best way to phrase it is that Europe is the sick man of Europe. Reply View All 1 Comment Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site . Add as a preferred source on Google Terms and conditions Contact Future's experts Privacy policy Cookies policy Accessibility Statement Advertise with us About us Coupons Careers &copy; Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street, New York, NY 10036.