tag on every page of your site. --> Unsealed Briefs in Authors’ Case v. Microsoft/OpenAI: Top Execs Knew Their Mass Book Piracy Was Illegal And Would Put Authors Out of Work - The Authors Guild Skip to main content Search by keyword Utility The Foundation Press About The Guild Who We Are Our Policies Our Team Strategic Plan Sister Organizations AG in the News Contact Us Sitebuilder Login Hello, Donate Join Login Main Membership About Membership Join the Authors Guild Renew Membership / Rejoin the Guild Membership FAQ Member Code of Conduct Services Legal Services Contract Reviews Copyright Advice Dispute Intervention Request Legal Help Web Services Sitebuilder: Easy Websites for Authors Free Website-Building Service Domain Name Registration Custom Email Insurance & Discounts Member Discounts &#038; Offers Media Liability Insurance Health & Supplemental Insurance More Services Human Authored Certification Press Cards Community Discussion Forum Regional Chapters Writers Marketplace Member Profiles Member Spotlights Member Awards New Books by Members Resources Legal Topics Contracts Copyright Writing About Real People Publishing Scams Estate Planning The Business of Writing Finding an Agent Marketing & Publicity Business Bootcamps for Writers Finances & Compensation More Resources Webinar & Event Recordings Contests The Bulletin All Resources Events Educational Programs Upcoming Events Past Events Foundation Events Authors Guild Foundation Gala Pascal Hall Authors Series Guild Nights Literary Programs More Events Chapter Events Member Events Submit an Event News & Advocacy Industry & Advocacy News All News Statements Press Releases Artificial Intelligence AI Advocacy AI Best Practices AI Model Clauses Anthropic Settlement Free Speech Book Banning Advocacy Book Ban Action Guide for Authors Help Us Stop Book Bans More All Advocacy Stances Advocacy Accomplishments Letters and Briefs Toggle Menu Open Search Form Close Search Form Search by keyword Join Login Human Authored Donate Main Membership Membership Collapse submenu About Membership Join the Authors Guild Renew Membership / Rejoin the Guild Membership FAQ Member Code of Conduct Services Services Collapse submenu Legal Services Contract Reviews Copyright Advice Dispute Intervention Request Legal Help Web Services Sitebuilder: Easy Websites for Authors Free Website-Building Service Domain Name Registration Custom Email Insurance & Discounts Member Discounts &#038; Offers Media Liability Insurance Health & Supplemental Insurance More Services Human Authored Certification Press Cards Community Community Collapse submenu Discussion Forum Regional Chapters Writers Marketplace Member Profiles Member Spotlights Member Awards New Books by Members Resources Resources Collapse submenu Legal Topics Contracts Copyright Writing About Real People Publishing Scams Estate Planning The Business of Writing Finding an Agent Marketing & Publicity Business Bootcamps for Writers Finances & Compensation More Resources Webinar & Event Recordings Contests The Bulletin All Resources Events Events Collapse submenu Educational Programs Upcoming Events Past Events Foundation Events Authors Guild Foundation Gala Pascal Hall Authors Series Guild Nights Literary Programs More Events Chapter Events Member Events Submit an Event News & Advocacy News & Advocacy Collapse submenu Industry & Advocacy News All News Statements Press Releases Artificial Intelligence AI Advocacy AI Best Practices AI Model Clauses Anthropic Settlement Free Speech Book Banning Advocacy Book Ban Action Guide for Authors Help Us Stop Book Bans More All Advocacy Stances Advocacy Accomplishments Letters and Briefs Utility The Foundation Press About The Guild Who We Are Our Policies Our Team Strategic Plan Sister Organizations AG in the News Contact Us All News Press Releases Unsealed Briefs in Authors’ Case v. Microsoft/OpenAI: Top Execs Knew Their Mass Book Piracy Was Illegal And Would Put Authors Out of Work Added to last week’s revelations, new filings reveal OpenAI's lawless determination to do virtually anything to win the AI arms race, including using books from a “sketchy Russian website” and releasing products “that will make people unemployed” September 21, 2026 Share on Twitter (opens in a new tab) on Facebook (opens in a new tab) on Linkedin (opens in a new tab) via email (New York, September 21, 2026) Explosive new documents released last Thursday in Authors Guild v. OpenAI —the major book authors’ ongoing lawsuit alleging OpenAI and Microsoft illegally trained their products on copyrighted books—show that executives and employees at both companies intentionally broke the law and their disdain for human authorship. The brief meticulously documents AI developers’ knowledge of the damage their actions could do to authors, publishers, and American culture itself, warning that “OpenAI’s GPT models pose an existential threat to those who write and publish books.” Plaintiffs in the lawsuit include The Authors Guild, writers David Baldacci, Taylor Branch, Michael Connelly, Sylvia Day, Jonathan Franzen, Christopher Golden, Andrew Sean Greer, John Grisham, David Henry Hwang, Matthew Klam, George R.R. Martin, Jodi Picoult, Stacy Schiff, James Shapiro, and others. Their filings ( here and here ) mark a turning point in the case, putting the defendant companies’ guilty knowledge and reckless actions at the center of the narrative. Authors Guild CEO Mary Rasenberger observed, “These filings reveal shocking disdain for writers and their work through repeated, intentional decisions to steal books rather than pay for them with full knowledge that their products will destroy the careers of authors. OpenAI pursued its mass piracy scheme even in the face of clear evidence that doing so would degrade American culture by substituting human works with AI slop and would put thousands of writers out of work. We are grateful to our entire legal team for uncovering and telling this critical story.” Alongside equally scorching but separate revelations in a brief filed by news media organizations, the authors’ brief reveals: OpenAI and Microsoft Knew Their Systems Would Replace Human Writers – OpenAI Policy Director Jack Clark stated in May 2020: “Our work on AI and Creativity is going to increasingly lead to us creating systems that substitute for the labor of [] people . . . The better we do on GPT-X, the more worried genre fiction authors will become about us substituting for them on Amazon.” He then doubled down: “ Our work in this area will make people unemployed. . . There will be a point where a bunch of artists express worry about what we’re doing here and we’ll likely ignore their concerns and release anyway . . .” “Autocompleting” Other People’s Work – OpenAI hired Tarun Gogineni in 2022 to lead its efforts to improve the writing quality of its models. Gogineni stated his “research mission” was to have GPT models write the “last two books of [Martin’s] A Song of Ice and Fire” series by “finishing it one day.” Gogineni even mused that he would “rest easy knowing that even if GRRM [George R. R. Martin] dies early, GPT-5 will autocomplete his series.” “Acceptable Economic Disruption.” – “Although [Gogineni] was aware of authors’ complaints that the ‘datasets are stolen’ and that authors were losing work to AI-generated competition, he did not find those complaints ‘all that sympathetic’ and instead viewed them as ‘acceptable economic disruption.’ He wrote that the world would soon experience ‘the death of the reader’ as ‘machines creat[ed] slop for more machines.’” Microsoft Knew OpenAI Used Pirated Books from the Start – “Microsoft knew about OpenAI’s use of LibGen as early as April 2019 when Sam Altman and Dario Amodei presented an early version of GPT-3 to Bill Gates and disclosed the use of LibGen to Gates and Microsoft’s Chief Technology Officer Kevin Scott, among others.” OpenAI Feared “Optics,” Not the Law – “Dario Amodei, OpenAI’s then-Research Director, responded that ‘as a training set [LibGen is] a bit sketchier.’ [OpenAI researcher Sam] McCandlish explained: ‘I was just worried about optics &#8211; i.e. ‘openai uses copyrighted data from sketchy russian website’ showing up on [Hacker News] would be unfortunate.” They Tried to Hide the Evidence – In an effort to cover its tracks the company called “Project Clear,” OpenAI deleted its LibGen files in the summer of 2022. “On June 15, 2022, in an OpenAI Slack channel, [OpenAI Corporate Designee] Paino asked: ‘general q: how concerned are we about mentions of libgen? (they’re all over google docs/slack/github . . .). That evening, [OpenAI VP of Research Bob] McGrew wrote to Paino and Nicholas Ryder: “Given how much OpenAI is in the news, now is the right time to excise Libgen from our systems and storage. What would be involved in that?’” All quotes taken from Class Plaintiffs’ Memorandum of Law in Support of Motion for Partial Summary Judgment ( Docket 1982 ) and Class Plaintiffs’ Corrected Rule 56.1 Statement of Undisputed Material Facts ( Docket 1987 ). This briefing was filed in the class action case brought on behalf of the Authors Guild and book copyright owners, Alter v. OpenAI and Microsoft , with lead counsel Justin A. Nelson from Susman Godfrey. The case is part of multidistrict litigation against those defendants pending in Manhattan. We expect more briefing over the next couple months and a hearing in early 2027. About the Authors Guild and Authors Guild Foundation With more than 18,000 members, the Authors Guild is the nation’s oldest and largest professional organization for published writers. It advocates on behalf of working writers to protect free speech, freedom of expression, and authors’ copyrights; fights for fair contracts and authors ability to earn a livable wage; and provides a welcoming community for writers and translators of fiction, nonfiction, poetry, and journalism. Through its educational and charitable arm, the Authors Guild Foundation, it also offers free programming to teach working writers about the business of writing, as well as organizing public events that highlight the importance of a rich, diverse American literary culture and the authors who contribute to it. Become a Member Join the Guild and support our work to protect authors&#8217; rights. Join now Footer Top Menu Member Login Sitebuilder Login Footer Social Menu Visit us on Instagram Opens in a new window Visit us on Threads Opens in a new window Visit us on Bluesky Opens in a new window Visit us on Facebook Opens in a new window Visit us on Linkedin Opens in a new window Footer Main Menu Membership & Services Join the Guild About Membership Legal Services Web Services Renew Membership Member Profiles Marketplace Discussion Forum Learning Resource Library Upcoming Events News Blog About About the Guild Advocacy Contact Us Newsletter Signup Receive important industry alerts, updates about our advocacy efforts, resources for your writing business, and more. --> Submit &copy; Authors Guild All Rights Reserved. Footer Utility Menu Terms of Use Auto Renewal Terms Member Code of Conduct Privacy Policy Search Index By continuing to browse or by clicking "Accept All Cookies," you agree to first- and third-party cookies being stored on your device to enhance functionality of our site and to help us analyze our site traffic. Accept All Cookies Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cookies ensure basic functionalities and security features of the website, anonymously. Cookie Duration Description cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics". cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional 11 months The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional". cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary". cookielawinfo-checkbox-others 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other. cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance". viewed_cookie_policy 11 months The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data. Functional Functional Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytics Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Others Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet. SAVE &amp; ACCEPT