LG strongly denies TV spying claims, says tracking and snooping concerns 'not true' &mdash; online investigation claims 216,000,000 TVs spy and record audio | Tom's Hardware Skip to main content Join Tom&rsquo;s Hardware today Upgrade to Tom&rsquo;s Hardware Premium Explore GO PREMIUM Choose how you want to join Tom&rsquo;s Hardware MEMBER Get started with free access to reviews, badges and discussions. Become a member Premium member Unlock exclusive tools and insights for enthusiasts who want more. Bench Database Exclusive Features Roadmaps Deep Analysis Become a premium member Go beyond the headlines with Tom&rsquo;s Hardware Premium Access Bench, Roadmaps, deep analysis and other exclusive tools. Explore PREMIUM Bench Performance Database Dive into our proprietary testing data and compare hardware with detailed benchmarks. Deep-Dive Analysis Go beyond the headlines with expert reporting on the hardware industry. Hardware Roadmaps Track upcoming CPUs, GPUs and tech releases before they arrive. Exclusive Long-Form Features In-depth features, interviews and insider stories from the world of hardware. Uptime Premium Newsletter Expert insights and analysis delivered to your inbox. of Bench Performance Database Dive into our proprietary testing data and compare hardware with detailed benchmarks. 1 of 5 Deep-Dive Analysis Go beyond the headlines with expert reporting on the hardware industry. 2 of 5 Hardware Roadmaps Track upcoming CPUs, GPUs and tech releases before they arrive. 3 of 5 Exclusive Long-Form Features In-depth features, interviews and insider stories from the world of hardware. 4 of 5 Uptime Premium Newsletter Expert insights and analysis delivered to your inbox. 5 of 5 Explore PREMIUM Welcome to Tom's Hardware club ! Hi , Your membership journey starts here. Keep exploring and earning more as a member. MY ACCOUNT Earn your first badge Read 1 article to unlock your first badge. Keep earning badges Explore ways to get more involved as a member. Latest on CPUs News, reviews, and technical insights. Explore GPU Insights Reviews, benchmarks, and updates on current GPUs. Explore See what you&rsquo;ve unlocked. Explore your membership benefits. Explore Unlock Premium Limited-time Premium offer Cancel anytime Explore premium Sign Out Premium Member Hi , Keep exploring with your premium access. Go TO Premium Hub Premium Tools Bench Database Exclusive Features Roadmaps Deep Analysis My Account Sign Out Open menu Tom's Hardware US Edition UK US Australia Canada RSS Sign in View Profile Sign out Search Search Tom's Hardware Best Picks CPU Buying Advice CPU Best Picks CPU Reviews GPU Buying Advice GPU Best Picks GPU Reviews Laptop Buying Advice Laptop Best Picks Laptop Reviews More Buying Advice Keyboard Best Picks Gaming Monitor Best Picks Gaming Headset Best Picks 3D Printer Best Picks Webcam Best Picks Mice Best Picks How We Test CPUs CPU Brands AMD Ryzen Intel Lunar Lake Qualcomm Apple Benchmarking Platforms X86 ARM Panther Lake Zen 5 AM5 Chipmaking DUV EUV Rare Earth Metals GPUs GPU Brands Nvidia Blackwell Nvidia Geforce AMD Radeon Intel Arc Snapdragon X Benchmarking Memory Tech GDDR7 GDDR8 HBM AI Architecture Nvidia Vera Rubin Meta MTIA Google TPU AMD Instinct Microsoft Maia Drivers PC Components Memory RAM DRAM DDR5 Storage HDDs SSDs Cooling Air Cooling Liquid Cooling Thermal Paste Networking Routers Motherboards Overclocking PC Cases PC Building Power Supplies News Tech Industry News CPU News GPU News Chips Act Semiconductors Cybersecurity Supercomputers Quantum Computing Company News AMD Intel Nvidia Radeon Microsoft TSMC Ryzen IBM Newsletter Laptops Gaming Laptops Ultrabooks MacBooks Laptop Brands Asus Razer HP MSI Desktops PC Building PC Cases Gaming PCs Monitors Gaming Monitors Peripherals Keyboards Mice 3D Printers Headphones Desktop Brands Alienware Corsair GeForce Intel Arc Gigabyte Acer Software &amp; AI Artificial Intelligence Machine Learning R&amp;D Intel Gaudi Cerebras xAI LLMs OpenAI Anthropic DeepSeek Gemini Grok Operating Systems Windows MacOS iOS ChromeOS Linux Software Programming Applications Microsoft Office Web Browsers Coupons Laptop and PC Coupons Dell Coupon Codes Asus Coupon Codes Logitech Promo Codes Samsung Promo codes Hardware Coupons Newegg Promo Codes Corsair Discount Codes Razer Promo Codes Anycubic Discount codes Software Coupons Bitdefender Coupons Simplisafe Coupons MacPaw Coupons Squarespace Coupon Codes Gaming Coupons Kinguin Discount Codes Loaded Discount Codes Logitech G Promo Codes SteelSeries Coupons More Premium Forums Home Best Picks View Best Picks CPU Buying Advice CPU Best Picks CPU Reviews GPU Buying Advice GPU Best Picks GPU Reviews Laptop Buying Advice Laptop Best Picks Laptop Reviews More Buying Advice Keyboard Best Picks Gaming Monitor Best Picks Gaming Headset Best Picks 3D Printer Best Picks Webcam Best Picks Mice Best Picks How We Test CPUs View CPUs CPU Brands AMD Ryzen Intel Lunar Lake Qualcomm Apple Benchmarking Platforms X86 ARM Panther Lake Zen 5 AM5 Chipmaking View Chipmaking DUV EUV Rare Earth Metals GPUs View GPUs GPU Brands Nvidia Blackwell Nvidia Geforce AMD Radeon Intel Arc Snapdragon X Benchmarking Memory Tech GDDR7 GDDR8 HBM AI Architecture Nvidia Vera Rubin Meta MTIA Google TPU AMD Instinct Microsoft Maia Drivers PC Components View PC Components Memory RAM DRAM DDR5 Storage View Storage HDDs SSDs Cooling View Cooling Air Cooling Liquid Cooling Thermal Paste Networking View Networking Routers Motherboards Overclocking PC Cases PC Building Power Supplies News View News Tech Industry News View Tech Industry News CPU News GPU News Chips Act Semiconductors Cybersecurity Supercomputers Quantum Computing Company News AMD Intel Nvidia Radeon Microsoft TSMC Ryzen IBM Newsletter Laptops View Laptops Gaming Laptops Ultrabooks MacBooks Laptop Brands Asus Razer HP MSI Desktops View Desktops PC Building View PC Building PC Cases Gaming PCs Monitors View Monitors Gaming Monitors Peripherals View Peripherals Keyboards Mice 3D Printers Headphones Desktop Brands Alienware Corsair GeForce Intel Arc Gigabyte Acer Software &amp; AI View Software &amp; AI Artificial Intelligence View Artificial Intelligence Machine Learning R&amp;D Intel Gaudi Cerebras xAI LLMs View LLMs OpenAI Anthropic DeepSeek Gemini Grok Operating Systems View Operating Systems Windows MacOS iOS ChromeOS Linux Software View Software Programming Applications Microsoft Office Web Browsers Coupons View Coupons Laptop and PC Coupons View Laptop and PC Coupons Dell Coupon Codes Asus Coupon Codes Logitech Promo Codes Samsung Promo codes Hardware Coupons View Hardware Coupons Newegg Promo Codes Corsair Discount Codes Razer Promo Codes Anycubic Discount codes Software Coupons View Software Coupons Bitdefender Coupons Simplisafe Coupons MacPaw Coupons Squarespace Coupon Codes Gaming Coupons View Gaming Coupons Kinguin Discount Codes Loaded Discount Codes Logitech G Promo Codes SteelSeries Coupons Premium Forums Tom's Hardware Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware Newsletter Get Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox. Become a Member in Seconds Unlock instant access to exclusive member features. Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors By submitting your information you agree to the Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over. You are now subscribed Your newsletter sign-up was successful Join the club Get full access to premium articles, exclusive features and a growing list of member rewards. Explore An account already exists for this email address, please log in. Trending AI Data Centers RAM Shortage Vera Rubin RAM Combo Deals Nova Lake Tom's 30th Anniversary IFA 2026 Tech Industry Big Tech LG strongly denies TV spying claims, says tracking and snooping concerns 'not true' &mdash; online investigation claims 216,000,000 TVs spy and record audio News By Stephen Warwick Published 9 September 2026 TVs were also said to be recording, scanning local area networks, logging data, and recording audio while in standby. When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here&rsquo;s how it works . (Image credit: Future) Copy link Facebook X Whatsapp Reddit Pinterest Flipboard Email Share this article 68 Join the conversation Follow us Add us as a preferred source on Google Newsletter Subscribe to our newsletter In a statement to Tom's Hardware , TV manufacturer LG has strongly denied recent claims that its smart TVs constantly log and upload data, record audio while in standby, while confirming they scan local area networks for other devices, a feature common in smart TVs and media devices. The statement follows an investigation published online by Gamers Nexus , which claims LG is operating "216,000,000" spy TVs. Earlier this week, Gamers Nexus published a video on YouTube claiming that LG smart TVs have several security and privacy concerns. The two-hour video claims, among other things, that LG's smart TVs constantly log and upload user data, even when offline or in standby mode. The TVs were also purported to be found scanning Wi-Fi networks, recording audio logs, and sampling inputs for audio and video to identify what users were watching. The testing was done in collaboration with two security researchers, MrBruh and uturn, and includes packet capture and firmware analysis. The TVs were reportedly seen identifying other devices on local networks, including phones, printers, and more. Perhaps the most significant claim regards the capturing of audio through TV microphones, even when the devices were off, with the report claiming the TVs stored data when offline for retrieval later on. Latest Videos From Tom's Hardware Watch full video here: "The claims made in the recently published video are not true," LG told Tom's Hardware in a statement. "LG TVs process voice data only when the voice button on the remote control is pressed and held, or when a wake word such as 'Hi LG' is recognized after the user has activated the Far-Field voice recognition feature." LG went on to say that beyond the aforementioned instances, "the TVs do not collect or record ambient conversations." The company further stated that if the wake word is not recognized, then no voice data is transmitted from the TV to the server, and said audio processing for the wake word is done on-device. You may like Companies are now using automatic Windows installers to display Adware through the Microsoft Store when you install new hardware AliExpress allegedly uses your browser's audio system to fingerprint your PC X busts 200,000-strong Chinese bot farm, including accounts making claims about AI data centers and electricity The company did admit its smart TV functionality includes scanning for devices on the same network. However, as many observers have been quick to point out, LG says this is a standard function of all smart TVs and other smart home devices. Automatic content recognition (ACR) is an opt-in feature according to LG, which delivers personalized content recommendations, as well as services and advertisements. The company says that, as standard, ACR data isn't used for advertising purposes without consent. Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware Newsletter Get Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox. Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors By submitting your information you agree to the Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over. Addressing some of the claims in more detail, LG stated that its smart TVs don't collect, record, or transmit ambient conversations in the home unless voice functionality has been activated by a user. It further stated that its far-field voice recognition tech (Hi LG) must be activated by a user before the TV starts listening, much like Apple's "Hey Siri" mechanism for iPhone. LG did confirm that its TVs monitor for Hi LG's wake word while in standby mode, but says that unless the wake word is detected, the audio is only processed locally before being deleted. The company didn't address some of the other claims and vulnerabilities pointed out in the video, such as the storing of transcripts in plain text. Tom's Hardware has not independently verified either the claims made by Gamers Nexus in its documentary or LG's counterclaims regarding the issue. LG's full statement follows: What to read next Geekom admits to shipping malware-laced network drivers for AMD mini PCs LG's large OLED panels get world's first Intertek certification for "perfect" color and brightness Developer uses Claude Code to debloat Android smart TV for 'unbelievable' performance upgrade LG Statement: This is to provide LG's position regarding the claims recently raised by the Gamers Nexus YouTube channel. The claims made in the recently published video are not true. LG TVs process voice data only when the voice button on the remote control is pressed and held, or when a wake word such as 'Hi LG' is recognized after the user has activated the Far-Field voice recognition feature. Other than these instances, the TVs do not collect or record ambient conversations. (If the wake word is not recognized, no voice data is transmitted to the server; the audio processing for wake word detection is performed locally on the device and is immediately deleted.) Additionally, to provide smart TV functionalities, LG TVs feature the ability to scan for and connect to nearby devices on the same network. This is a standard function commonly provided by smart TVs and smart home devices. The ACR (Automatic Content Recognition) feature is provided on an opt-in basis to deliver personalized content recommendation, services, and advertisements. If a user does not consent to the applicable optional agreement, ACR data is not used for advertising purposes. Topic by topic breakdown: At LG Electronics, we are committed to transparency and secure user experience. To clarify recent concerns and reiterate our commitment, we would like to emphasize the following points: Protecting Voice Privacy: We ensure that your LG TV does not collect, record or transmit ambient conversations in your home, unless voice functionality has been intentionally activated by the user. Far-Field Voice Recognition ("Hi LG"): This feature must be manually activated by the user before the TV begins listening for the specific wake word. Audio processing occurs only when voice functionality has been activated by the user and a wake work (such as &ldquo;Hi LG&rdquo;) is detected. Standby Mode Operation: When the TV is in standby mode and appears to be turned off, it only monitors for the wake word if you have previously enabled the Far-Field feature. If no wake word is detected, the audio used for wake word detection is processed locally on the TV, promptly deleted, and is not transmitted to LG servers. Transparent and Useful Connectivity: LG TVs can identify compatible devices on the same network to enable features such as device connectivity, content sharing or smart home functionality. Proactive and Continuous Security: Data security is a top priority for LG. We continuously monitor our platform and partner with independent security experts to identify vulnerabilities and deliver timely security updates. Full Control Over Data and Terms: LG Electronics is committed to providing transparency and rejecting deceptive practices (dark patterns), ensuring users can choose their preferred privacy and consent options directly through their TV settings. Consent-Based Activation: To provide a more tailored and convenient experience, LG TVs offer Automatic Content Recognition (ACR) to enhance viewing experiences, Voice Recognition for hands-free control, and Interest-Based Advertising to deliver relevant advertisements. Each feature requires separate explicit user opt-in consent and can be disabled at any time through the TV settings. Follow Tom's Hardware on Google News , or add us as a preferred source , to get our latest news, analysis, &amp; reviews in your feeds. TOPICS LG See all comments (68) Stephen Warwick Social Links Navigation News Editor Stephen is Tom's Hardware's News Editor with almost a decade of industry experience covering technology, having worked at TechRadar, iMore, and even Apple over the years. He has covered the world of consumer tech from nearly every angle, including supply chain rumors, patents, and litigation, and more. When he's not at work, he loves reading about history and playing video games. Read more Windows Companies are now using automatic Windows installers to display Adware through the Microsoft Store when you install new hardware &nbsp; &nbsp; Cybersecurity AliExpress allegedly uses your browser's audio system to fingerprint your PC &nbsp; &nbsp; Policy X busts 200,000-strong Chinese bot farm, including accounts making claims about AI data centers and electricity &nbsp; &nbsp; Cybersecurity Geekom admits to shipping malware-laced network drivers for AMD mini PCs &nbsp; &nbsp; Monitors LG's large OLED panels get world's first Intertek certification for "perfect" color and brightness &nbsp; &nbsp; Artificial Intelligence Developer uses Claude Code to debloat Android smart TV for 'unbelievable' performance upgrade &nbsp; &nbsp; Latest in Big Tech Big Tech Arm faces potential shareholder revolt over CEO's 'excessive' $800 million pay package &nbsp; &nbsp; Big Tech Key Nvidia and Intel supplier raided over alleged China origin fraud &nbsp; &nbsp; Big Tech Nvidia gears up its influence in Washington, forming PAC &nbsp; &nbsp; Big Tech Nvidia revenue tops $96 billion as memory commitments soar to $160 billion &nbsp; &nbsp; Big Tech SpaceXAI will deploy standalone Nvidia Vera CPUs for Grok's agentic workloads &nbsp; &nbsp; Big Tech Supermicro fires several employees following investigation into $2.5 billion China AI chip smuggling &nbsp; &nbsp; Latest in News Drones Waymo robotaxi calls cops on riders handling loaded AR-style ghost gun &nbsp; &nbsp; Artificial Intelligence Chinese military researchers and tech giants caught using Claude &nbsp; &nbsp; Drones Ukraine triumphs in 'first-ever' drone-vs-drone boat battle &nbsp; &nbsp; Cryptomining Mexican cartel's crypto farm seized in mountain raid &nbsp; &nbsp; Artificial Intelligence Iran and Houthi rebels used Anthropic's Claude AI to target US warships and build hypersonic missiles &nbsp; &nbsp; Programming Playable Tomb Raider runs on a humble 1-watt chip &nbsp; &nbsp; 68 Comments Comment from the forums Jabberwocky79 Meh, I land somewhere in the middle on this... I mean, Yes, I have no doubt that big tech is nefarious, and I appreciate consumer advocacy, but as GamersNexus goes deeper and deeper into their conspiracy crusades, I tend to trust them less and less. It's a weird paradox I suppose. But I stopped watching them regularly a while ago because I realized that A) I can't do anything about the stuff Tech Jesus is complaining about, and B) I don't need to expose myself to so much negativity all the time. Reply cknobman IF all the findings from Gamers Nexus were really false could LG not file a defamation lawsuit? So LG should issue a takedown/correction/apology from Gamers Nexus or sue. No suit, then I'd wager Gamers Nexus findings are true and LG is full of crap. Reply Vicecrow LG and Samsung = CRAP I will dissemble the samsung tv to remove the wifi and bluetooth. Every one tries to connect to the tv and can't disable it. With the power meter some times I see the power increase but all things is shutdown no backlight on the tv, but why the hell is consuming 40w of energy? tracking and listen what I say. Thank god don't have a webcam on it. The samsung is a QN90D 43" Reply Math Geek they'll deny until it goes to court where discovery will prove it's all true. then they'll say "our bad, someone 